418
Grim Hollow monster Grimoire
Chapter 5: Monsters as PCs
T
he world of Etharis, home to the Grim Hollow 
Campaign Setting, is steeped in darkness and 
danger. The grim truth, known but unspoken by 
every citizen of the land, is that death—or worse—lurks 
in every unlit corner, every city sewer, every cold cavern, 
and every shadow-filled forest. The vast scope and depth 
of the panoply of monsters in Etharis dooms everyone, 
regardless of species, station, location, or ethos.
And then there’s the heroes….
MOnstrOus herOes
The heroes walking the risk-laden paths of Etharis are 
awash in the most vile, dangerous, horrifying evils 
that anyone could imagine. While fighting those evil 
opponents with all their might, the heroes of Etharis 
find more than their bodies getting damaged. Evil wears 
on the soul as well, and heroes are not immune to its 
seductive powers.
In a Grim Hollow campaign, characters have access 
to rules that represent the pull of evil power on them. 
Sangromancy magic offers great power, at a great price. 
Curses fly as readily as arrows or bolts. Most impactful 
are the transformations, changing the characters in 
dramatic and dark ways.
If the campaign is accepting of characters that turn 
into monsters as play progresses, then there’s no reason 
to think that creatures considered monsters can’t get in 
on the fun!
MaKing MOnsters wOrK
Monsters and monstrous species can undoubtedly be 
fun to play as characters. They offer not only new and 
different game mechanics, but players can tell unique 
and dramatic stories with them.
For these types of characters to work, however, 
communication among the gamemaster and players is 
vital. Bugbears, gnolls, or morbus kobolds walking into a 
rural village—or even a major city—might be a cause of 
great concern for many. If expectations are not set ahead 
of time, this could cause problems in a campaign.
Having monstrous characters confronted once or twice 
might be a fun roleplaying session. Having such a 
conflict occur every session gets repetitive and tedious. 
So how does a group handle this?
If there is just one monstrous character in a party, the 
rest of the party can vouch for the untrusted member 
of their group. Even better, provide a home base for 
the party where such characters are not just accepted, 
but they are welcomed. A town like this, set on the 
dangerous edge of civilization, can be a great setting for 
a campaign.
Bugbear
Most bugbears interacting with the populace of Etharis 
are those infected with the cursed disease known as 
Tormach’s Rage. This makes the sight of a bugbear 
terrifying to anyone beholding them in their terrible 
frenzied attacks.
Powerful magic, divine intervention, and other unusual 
circumstances, however, might cure a bugbear of the affliction. 
These cured individuals, cognizant of their previous situations 
and the toll it took on them physically and mentally, have 
a new outlook on life. What they choose to do with their 
freedom from the grasp of the disease, of course, changes 
from bugbear to bugbear.
Some might seek their own kind, hoping to find groups 
of bugbears who have not fallen to the disease. These, 
however, are extremely rare. It’s more likely that these 
bugbears, having been changed by their experience, attempt 
to join society to achieve their goals. 
bugbear traits
Bugbears healed from the scourge of Tormach’s Rage 
retain some of the ferocity but have also been changed 
from the experience.
Ability Score Increase. Your Strength score 
increases by 2 and your Wisdom score increases by 1.
Age. The toll that Tormach’s Rage takes on you 
shortens your life span. You reach maturity at 16 years 
old and tend to fade away by the age of 40.
Alignment. The perspective gained through the curse, 
and shedding it, makes you tend toward neutrality.
Size. You typically grow to 7 feet tall, reaching 
300 pounds. Your size is Medium.
Speed. Your base walking speed is 30 feet.
Darkvision. You can see in dim light within 60 feet 
of you as if it were bright light, and in darkness as if it 
were dim light. You can’t discern color in darkness, only 
shades of gray.
Battle-tested. You have advantage on saving 
throws that would cause you to become charmed or 
frightened. You also have advantage on Charisma 
(Intimidation) checks.
Controlled Frenzy. You can enter a state of con-
trolled rage a number of times equal to your proficiency 
bonus. It is no action to enter the state, which lasts until 
the start of your next turn. While in this state, you add 
1d6 to your weapon damage. This extra damage increas-
es to 1d10 at 7th level and 1d12 at 14th level. The uses of 
your controlled frenzy refresh after finishing a long rest.
Hardy. You have advantage on Constitution 
saving throws.
Languages. You speak Goblin and one 
national language.
419
Chapter 5: NpC’s
Faevlin
Escaping the fey realm have given you a sense that noth-
ing can keep you from achieving all your goals. Especial-
ly if those goals involve guile, subterfuge, or chicanery.
You look at the world much differently than other 
creatures, mostly because your head is upside-down. 
Keeping your chin up has never been a problem!
You’re always looking over your shoulder, as the fey 
powers that you tricked might be seeking vengeance 
against you. Gaining power makes it harder for that to 
take place.
FaevLin traits
Faevlin combine the sneakiness of their mortal-world 
cousins with the magic that seeped into your being from 
the land of fey.
Ability Score Increase. Your Dexterity score 
increases by 2 and your Wisdom score increases by 1.
Age. As a creature that has a connection to the land of 
the fey, you’re longer-lived than your goblin cousins. You 
reach adulthood at the age of 20 and live to 160 years.
Alignment. Your capricious and whimsical nature 
indicates a trend toward chaotic behavior.
Size. You are generally shorter and slighter than 
your goblin cousins, averaging about 3 feet tall and 
60 pounds. Your size is Small.
Speed. Your base walking speed is 30 feet.
Darkvision. You can see in dim light within 60 feet 
of you as if it were bright light, and in darkness as if it 
were dim light. You can’t discern color in darkness, only 
shades of gray.
Fey Fade. When an attack misses you, you can 
teleport up to 30 feet in a random direction, arriving in a 
safe, unoccupied space. You cannot use this ability again 
until you finish a short rest.
Fey Touched. Magic can’t put you to sleep, and you 
can only be charmed by the magic of a fey creature.
Sneaky. You can use a bonus action to take the 
Hide action.
Languages. You speak Goblin, Sylvan, and one 
national language.
Gnoll
You were once a different humanoid creature of 
Etharis, going about your life like everyone else. Then 
the Great Beast paid a visit to your home area. The 
corrupting magic of the Beast didn’t just change your 
life, it changed your very essence. You became a raving 
monster, a hyena-headed killer whose mind crackled 
with a presence that drove you further and further into 
an insatiable bloodlust.
Then, one day, out of nowhere, the crackling ceased. 
Your body remained in its corrupted form, a furry and 
scary-looking beast, but your mind returned to its pre-
vious state. You couldn’t remember what happened to 
you since the mutation of the Great Beast overpowered 
you, but you remember your life before. With your new, 
monstrous form but your previous consciousness, life 
will certainly take you to interesting places.
gnOLL traits
Gnolls who’ve escaped the bonds of the Great Beast 
retain some of their bestial abilities but regain their 
memories and original personality.
Ability Score Increase. One ability score of your 
choice increases by 2, reflecting who you were before 
you became a gnoll. Also, your Constitution score 
increases by 1.
Age. You became mature when you transformed into 
a gnoll, if you weren’t already. You’re unsure of how 
long you will live in this new form. Most gnolls don’t die 
of old age.
Alignment. You have the same alignment tendencies 
as before you were transformed, although your 
experience may have changed your outlook now.
Size. You are slighting taller than an average human, 
although you tend to be stooped and you’re the same 
girth. Your size is Medium.
Speed. Your base walking speed is 30 feet.
Darkvision. You can see in dim light within 60 feet 
of you as if it were bright light, and in darkness as if it 
were dim light. You can’t discern color in darkness, only 
shades of gray.
Instinctive. If you are not surprised, your supernat-
ural danger acuity allows you to roll with advantage on 
your first initiative roll after completing a long rest.
Spine Spike. You have spikes that grow from your 
spine that can be expelled toward a target as a bonus 
action. You are proficient with these spikes, which are 
considered natural ranged weapons and can use either 
Strength or Dexterity for attack and damage rolls. The 
range on your spikes are 20/60 ft, and they do 1d6 
piercing damage. At level 11, the damage increases to 
1d12. You can use your spine spikes a number of times 
per long rest equal to your proficiency bonus.
Languages. You speak Gnoll and one 
national language.
Monsters, Ability Scores 
and Alignment
Individuals are unique, and the characters in your game 
take that uniqueness to a whole new level. The traits 
presented in this chapter reflect the average characters of 
this monster’s type. Aspects of the character—specifically 
ability score increases and alignment—should be flexible 
during character creation. Players and DMs should talk 
before a campaign starts to agree on the best choices for 
the story they’re hoping to tell.
420
Grim Hollow monster Grimoire
Grudgel
Although it’s disorienting to not remember your life 
before waking up one morning in a fog, your people are 
incredibly resourceful and clear-headed. Your early days 
on Etharis were not easy, as your physical form struck 
fear into the hearts of Etharis’s less fierce inhabitants. 
Some heard tales from their ancestors about creatures 
like you being evil and cruel.
But you are neither, and your helpfulness and peaceful 
demeanor helped those around you find a place in the 
world. Still, in regions where few grudgels have migrated, 
fear is still the first reaction you see from others
.
grudgeL traits
Grudgels bring both brains and brawn to their endeavors.
Ability Score Increase. Your Dexterity score 
increases by 2 and your Strength score increases by 1.
Age. While your people have not been on Etharis long 
enough to get precise life-span measurements, it appears 
that most of your kind mature by age 15 and live to 
about 75 years.
Alignment. You have a tendency toward order over 
chaos, of cooperation over selfishness.
Size. You are generally larger than humans, 
averaging well over 6 feet tall and 250 pounds. Your size 
is Medium.
Speed. Your base walking speed is 30 feet.
Darkvision. You can see in dim light within 60 feet 
of you as if it were bright light, and in darkness as if it 
were dim light. You can’t discern color in darkness, only 
shades of gray.
Center. You can use a bonus action to focus before 
making an attack roll or ability check. If you do so, you 
have advantage on your next attack roll or ability check 
before the end of your turn. You can use this ability 
again after completing a short or long rest.
Warrior. You have proficiency with simple weap-
ons, light armor, shields, and one martial weapon of 
your choice.
Languages. You speak Grudgel and one 
national language.
Morbus Kobold
Your people evolved separately from your kobold 
cousins, spurred on by the dangerous practice of 
manipulating diseases and the compounds that spread 
them. Your webbed hands and feet make you a strong 
swimmer, but it’s your knowledge that sets you apart.
Your culture taught you much about diseases and 
rare ingredients that might spread or cure those diseases. 
Though your disease-spreading kin have a clear and 
grotesque idea of what they want the world to look like, 
you have other notions. These thoughts may have driven 
you from your clan, pushing you into a world that found 
you strange at first. But your knowledge of the diseases 
that plague the world left you in a unique position to help.
MOrbus KObOLd traits
Morbus kobolds take the knowledge of diseases and 
natural substances, and they can use it for good as much 
as evil.
Ability Score Increase. Your Dexterity score 
increases by 2 and your Constitution score increases by 1.
Age. You reach adulthood by age 10, living to 
approximately 100 years.
Alignment. While your kin revel in the chaos and 
pain that disease spreads, you have learned the value 
of life.
Size. You are similar in size to regular kobolds, aver-
aging about 3 feet tall and 30 pounds. Your size is Small.
Speed. Your base walking speed is 30 feet, and you 
have a swim speed of 30 feet as well.
Darkvision. You can see in dim light within 60 feet 
of you as if it were bright light, and in darkness as if it 
were dim light. You can’t discern color in darkness, only 
shades of gray.
Disease Resistant. You gain advantage on saving 
throws to resist disease. In addition, once per long 
rest, you can use a reaction to provide an adjacent ally 
advantage on a saving throw to resist diseases.
Medical Knowledge. Your interactions with disease 
and medicines provide you with superior knowledge. 
You make Intelligence (Nature) and Wisdom (Medicine) 
checks with advantage, and you are proficient with 
alchemist’s supplies.
In addition, at the end of a short rest, you can choose 
yourself or one ally who spends hit dice to regain hit 
points. The chosen creature rolls each hit die spent twice, 
taking the higher of the two rolls.
Natural Alchemist. At the end of a long rest, if 
you have access to alchemist’s supplies, you can create 
a substance that maintains a magical property until the 
start of your next long rest. This substance can act as a 
potion of healing, a vial of acid, or alchemist’s fire.
Languages. You speak Draconic and one 
national language.
Monsters as PCs 
Trinket Table
Just as playing a monstrous character comes with different 
narrative possibilities and mechanical expressions, so too 
should it come with different trinkets. The trinket table 
on this page is meant to supplement the trinket table in 
the Grim Hollow Players Guide.
This table can also be used to add some flavorful 
(and disturbing items) to decorate a monster’s lair, or 
to add something unique to a monster’s equipment or 
treasure hoard.
421
Chapter 5: NpC’s
D100
Trinket
01-02
A mummified troll’s hand that constantly twitches and 
occasionally makes a rude gesture
03-04
A red-tinted hag’s eye with the optic nerve still attached, with 
the pupil expanding and contracting based on the light
05-06
A framed piece of skin, tattooed with a heart and the word 
“Mother” written in Ostoyan
07-08
A straw-filled fabric beagle with tiny onyx eyes and an agate 
nose, punctured by hundreds of needle pricks
09-10
A chipped porcelain cup decorated with a pattern of angelic 
wings and rainbows. The inside of the cup is stained with a 
blood-red liquid
11-12
A large brass bell with a wooden handle forged in the shape 
of a dragon, with the clapper missing and the dragon’s head 
defaced by a sharp blade
13-14
A wooden block with each face representing one of the letters 
of the Bürach alphabet, marred by innumerable gnaw marks
15-16
A blood-soaked silk handkerchief, embroidered with fancy 
designs in silver thread. The blood remains on the kerchief 
regardless of the laundering methods used to remove it
17-18
A silver coin from an unknown realm, bearing the regal head 
of a human woman wearing a tiara. The coin is bent and 
bears a single tooth mark
19-20
An oval piece of granite with eyes, a nose, and a mouth added 
to it in green chalk, and hair made of seaweed stuck to the 
top with mud
21-22
A moldy and smelly strip of dried and cured elk jerky, 
attached to a leather thong to be worn around the neck
23-24
A small pine box fitted with rudimentary brass hinges and a 
copper latch. The box is empty, but ink drawings of gems and 
jewelry decorate the interior surfaces
25-26
An intact human lower jawbone with two of the teeth still 
intact, etched with strange symbols that glow when a drop of 
blood is placed on the jaw
27-28
A pair of sturdy, mud-covered leather boots with holes in the 
toe end where sharp and pointy toe claws could comfortably 
fit through
29-30
An unlucky sawdust-stuffed rabbit, with grey and brown 
spotted fur, missing all of its lucky feet
31-32
A pen made from the severed claw of a hag, with the blood 
vessels feeding the blood-red ink into the pen’s tip
33-34
Fine pink sand held in a pouch created from the cured and 
stitched stomach of a hurrock, fringed with hair from a 
dwarf’s beard
35-36
A kite made from the skin of an ogresh, with a tail made from 
elven hair and the string tied around the tibia of a dreamer
37-38
An eating utensil carved from the tusk of an ogre swine, with 
one side acting as a knife and the other shape like a fork.
39-40
A mummified goblin hand, the stiffened fingers clutching a 
loaded die carved from the skull of a human
41-42
A blood-stained paper fan decorated with three images 
depicting locations in the city of Grabenstein
43-44
The tongue of a shadowsteel ghast, flecked with tiny shards 
of shadowsteel that crackle with blue lightning when a spell 
is cast nearby
45-46
Fronds from the tips of a meyana’s pincer, chopped into a 
fine powder to be used as tobacco in a pipe
47-48
The body of a rat encased in wax, with the name Rupert 
etched into the wax in Infernal
49-50
A miniature pitchfork forged from silver, with the five tines 
shaped to appear as slender pucks
51-52
A mosquito encased in clear amber, but under scrutiny 
revealing that the insect has a human face behind 
the proboscis
53-54
The horn of a daemon, polished to a sheen and fitted with an 
ivory handle to act as a dagger
55-56
A necklace made of colorful shells, held together with a string 
of gold filament, with tiny screams emitting from the shells 
every few minutes
57-58
A plague mask with the carved face smiling widely, with the 
nose of its last wearing still in the mask
59-60
A jump rope fashioned from the tied-together antennae of 
several hivewolves
61-62
A rough clay sculpture of a young laneshi screaming. 
Droplets of water occasionally spurt from its mouth
63-64
A small glass jar filled with a preserving agent, holding the 
head of a hungerer snake with mouth open and fangs exposed
65-66
Silver earrings on long chains, with the severed nose of a 
blood tracker hanging from the end of each
67-68
A burlap sack with eye holes cut out on each side, with one 
side painted as a broad grinning face and the other as a 
terrible snarl
69-70
A ball of twine the size of a human head, which at its center is 
the head of a screaming wechselkind
71-72
A small earthen jug of vinegary red wine, with the word 
“mouthwash” etched into the jug in Giant
73-74
A leathery belt weaved together from strips of the poxed hide 
of several morbus kobolds, studded with brown, rotten teeth
75-76
A colorful bound journal sporting a unicorn on the cover, 
although the pages contain gibberish and crude, violent 
drawings written in blood
77-78
The desiccated heart of a giant, filled with straw and stitched 
with ligaments for use as a kickball
79-80
A tin whistle decorated with colorful but worthless stones, 
bent nearly in half. Blowing into the whistle causes a high-
pitched shriek
81-82
A long-stemmed pipe made from polished mahogany, with 
the bowl of the pipe clogged with a half-orc’s eyeball
83-84
A covered tin plate containing a moldy and smashed piece of 
cake, covered in blood-matted hair
85-86
The obsidian hilt of a broken dagger, carved in symbols used 
by the Knifetooth clan
87-88
Tattered silk scarves embroidered with the names of minor 
nobles who were executed for terrible crimes against 
their subjects
89-90
An ivory scroll tube holding the ashes of an arcanist burned 
by the Arcanist Inquisition. If they spill from the tube, a 
localized zephyr blows them back in
91-92
A stone carving of the Great Beast, caked with blood and gore 
that cannot be removed with normal cleaning methods
93-94
The bill from the head of a giant gasdra, hinged to claps 
together to make a percussion instrument
95-96
A multicolored scale from a drake, polished to act like a 
mirror that distorts the viewer to appear as a mutant monster
97-98
Pink ribbon from one of the dolls of a toymaker, which tends 
to bind and squeeze fingers tightly if handled
99-100
Roll twice, ignoring this result if rolled again