411
Chapter 4: MagiC iteMs and salvage
arcane crafting is many times more valuable than 
any single magic weapon she could produce.
This heightens the characters (and their players) 
appreciation for, and attention to, the NPCs they 
encounter. NPCs are no longer cardboard cutouts that 
sit idly by, waiting for rescue from danger, while the 
heroes go about their business. The lives of these NPCs 
are much more important to the characters, and to the 
unfolding narrative of the campaign, when they have 
important information and assistance to offer.
NPCs, when they gain this increased importance 
in the success of the characters, enrich the campaign’s 
setting. A calculating villain whose weak point can be 
exploited by the creations of an expert alchemist is much 
more likely to target the alchemist than the characters—
and this brings a new dynamic to a campaign.
saLvage and CraFting ruLes
The salvage rules for monsters includes not just what 
can be taken from the monsters; what can be crafted 
with those items is also stated.
Crafting these items takes into account four elements, 
in addition to the salvaged components:
• Crafting time
• Necessary proficiencies or spells
• Ability checks
• Other components
Each of these elements is described in greater detail 
below. Remember: these elements are suggestions. Any 
or all of them can be changed to best fit your campaign.
CraFting tiMe
The necessary time for item crafting is based on the type 
of item and its rarity. Items like weapons, armor, or 
clothing generally take longer than potions. However, 
powerful magic also adds complexity—and therefore 
time—to the crafting period. A simple potion might 
only take a few hours, while the most powerful arcane 
implement takes several days, weeks, or even months of 
constant work.
The length of time listed for crafting items from 
salvage passes whether the item is created successfully 
or not. The time assumes that the crafters work 16-hour 
days, and then take the mandatory 8 hours of a long rest. 
Remember that during the time spent crafting, the 
crafters must still eat, rest, and take care of themselves. 
This might incur expenses renting space, buying food, 
etc. Those who aren’t crafting can, of course, take steps 
to provide those resources.
If crafting is going to play an important role in your 
campaign, providing characters (or even NPCs) with 
rules-based abilities to perform crafting might be just as 
valuable as combat-based abilities. For example, offering 
feats like the ones below might be valuable:
adrOit CraFter
Prerequisite: Proficiency in a skill or tool
You’ve trained in crafting items using a skill or tool that 
you’re proficient with, and the steps in crafting have become 
second nature to you. You gain the following benefits:
• The time it takes to create an item using your proficient 
skills or tools is halved.
• If you fail to successfully craft the item and would lose 
the components, you retain the components instead.
CareFuL CraFter
Prerequisite: Proficiency in a skill or tool
You’ve trained in crafting items using a skill or tool 
that you’re proficient with, and your creations are 
known for being well made and reliable. You gain the 
following benefits:
• You make all ability checks for crafting with advantage.
• Anyone assisting you in crafting an item gains 
advantage on their ability checks for crafting.
• If you fail to successfully craft the item, the amount of 
time it took to complete the process is halved.
neCessary prOFiCienCies 
Or speLLs
Crafting items sometimes requires a character or NPC 
with a certain proficiency to take part in the crafting. A 
person proficient with weaponsmith’s tools must create 
the sword or mace if a magical weapon is being crafted. 
This proficiency is separate from the ability check that 
must be successfully made to craft the item.
For example, creating arcane oil from a xakalonus 
requires a successful DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana) check 
by a proficient alchemist. If a single person meets both 
conditions (proficient with alchemist’s supplies AND 
proficient in the Arcana skill), they can craft the oil by 
themselves. However, two people can also work together 
if each is proficient in only one of the necessary skills or 
tools. In this case, they must each spend the entire time 
required for crafting.
abiLity CheCKs
The ability check associated with a crafting should be 
made at the end of the crafting period. If the check is a 
success, the item is successful crafted. On a failure, the 
item is not crafted successful, and all the components 
that went into the crafting are consumed (unless 
otherwise stated).
Only people who take part in the entire process, and 
who are proficient in the skill called for, can attempt this 
check. If multiple people involved are proficient with 
the skill, they can roll individually, or they can assist 
someone else, giving them advantage on the check.
Magic that provides bonuses for a limited time—such 
as guidance—cannot be used to affect the ability check 
unless it is active for the entirety of the crafting process.
412
Grim Hollow monster Grimoire
In some cases, rather than calling for a certain skill or 
ability check, the crafting of an item requires repeated 
casting of a particular spell. In these cases, someone must 
be available and willing to take part in the process for at 
least 1 hour of the day that the crafting takes place. This 
spell might be provided from a scroll, magic item, NPC, 
or some other source. Spells provided by a source other 
than a character might require payment, which could 
be in the form of coin, favors, or whatever else you can 
imagine that makes for a memorable story.
aLternative FaiLure systeM
Some players may bristle at a system where one failed 
check might have great repercussions in terms of time 
and components lost. If this is the case, a graduated 
failure system like the one below can take away some of 
the sting of failure. 
1-3 lower than DC: No components are lost, and only 
half the time of crafting is spent.
4-6 lower than DC: Half the components are lost, and 
75% of the time are spent.
7-9 lower than DC: All components and time is lost.
10+ lower than DC: All components and time are 
lost, and all participants gain 2 levels of exhaustion (or 
alternative arcane mishap occurs).
New Magic Items
T
he following magic items can be crafted from 
salvage taken from the monsters detailed in this 
book. The process for creating them is detailed in 
the salvage section of the monster entry.
You can, of course, simply present these items to 
your players as treasure taken from enemies—or even 
gifted or sold by NPCs or other elements of your game. 
However, presenting the items rather than encouraging 
the players (or their NPC associates) to craft them takes 
away from the objective of showing how valuable skills 
and proficiencies are in Etharis.
adder stOne
Wondrous item, rare
While you carry this glassy stone, which has a natural 
hole in it and is the size of a small fruit, you have 
advantage on saving throws against effects that cause 
you to become paralyzed. These stones are often found 
near the place where a marra is slain. When the adder 
stone prevents someone from becoming paralyzed 
(one saving throw would fail and the other succeed), it 
shatters into worthless shards.
arCane OiL
Potion, rare
This substance is created by distilling the jelly that encases 
the brain of a xakalonus. As an action, you can coat one 
weapon or 20 pieces of ammunition with the substance. 
If the coated objects are not magical, for the next minute, 
your attacks with the coated weapon or ammunition gain 
a +2 bonus to attack and damage rolls.
If the coated objects are magical, the oil does not affect 
attack or damage rolls with them. However, your attacks 
against the hraptnon can fully damage that creature for 
one minute. 
brazen arMOr
Armor (plate), very rare (requires attunement)
This armor, fashioned from the body of an Empyrean 
brazen bull, gleams brightly in direct sunlight. While 
wearing this armor, you gain a +1 bonus to AC. In 
addition, you have resistance to fire and radiant damage.
Cap OF bravery
Wondrous item, uncommon
Woven into a cap from the remains of an old snarite, this 
cap provides the wearer with a sense of magical peace 
and calm that emanates from them. When the wearer 
succeeds on a saving throw against the frightened condition, 
allies within 30 feet gain advantage on saving throws 
against the same effect.
A Note on Time as a Resource
This game is, to some extent, a game about resource 
management: defeat all the enemies in your path before 
you run out of hit points, spells slots, ki points, rages, etc. 
Many memorable campaigns make time as valuable a 
resource as any other.
To make these time-valuable campaigns work, you 
must integrate the drama of time passing into the 
unfolding story. For example, it might be necessary for 
the characters to create a certain item to defeat a looming 
opponent, but other tasks are also pressing. The decision 
of whether to create the item, take on the other tasks, or 
split the party becomes important.
It’s of the utmost importance to remember, however, 
that forcing players to sit out even parts of sessions to 
watch others play might not provide the most fun. In cases 
like this, you have options. If two of the characters are 
needed to create an item, and the rest of the characters go 
off to perform a task, you have options to keep the players 
of the crafting characters involved. Companion characters 
can be hired to join the party for a mission. (A few interesting 
options are provided in this book.) Players can be allowed 
to make decisions and roll dice for the monsters the other 
characters are fighting on their side-mission. Just because 
the characters are absent doesn’t mean the players can’t 
participate in significant and fun ways.
413
Chapter 4: MagiC iteMs and salvage
CarvaLOth sCaLe arMOr
Armor (scale mail), uncommon
While you wear this red-tinged armor made from the 
scales of several carvaloths, Wisdom (Perception) checks 
made to see you have disadvantage, and you have 
advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks made to hide 
from sight, as the armor’s color shifts to camouflage you. 
CaustiC rapier
Weapon (rapier), rare (requires attunement)
This strange weapon is fashioned from the mandibles 
of a hivewolf. While you wield this weapon, you have 
a +2 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this 
weapon. When you roll a 19-20 on your attack roll with 
this weapon, that attack does an additional 7 (2d6) acid 
damage. In addition, you are immune to acid damage 
while wielding the weapon.
COat OF Lies
Wondrous item, rare (requires attunement by a spellcaster)
This coat made of the severed tongues of a harvester’s 
victims provides a +1 bonus to your AC, and you have 
advantage on Charisma (Deception) checks. 
Also, as a bonus action three times per day, you can 
activate the magic of the cloak. If you do, the next spell 
you cast before the start of your next turn can be cast 
without any somatic or verbal components.
CLOaK OF the Listener
Wondrous item, rare
This is a cloak made of ears that were once part of a 
swarm of ears. It pulses gently and oozes yellow fluid 
from its many holes. While wearing this cloak, you can 
call upon its magic with an action to create two effects:
Ooze. Upon tugging the cloak, you can cause the 
cloak to create a 10 ft. puddle of waxy material onto 
the ground within 10 ft. of you. Creatures entering or 
starting their turn in the area must succeed on a DC 15 
Dexterity saving throw or become grappled by the wax 
(escape DC 15). This wax remains for 1 minute.
Hide. Upon completely hiding your head with the 
cloak, you gain blindsense up to 120 ft. and can hear 
all conversations within that range regardless of 
obstructions. These effects last for 1 minute.
After using each of these effects once, they can be 
used again after the wearer finishes a long rest.
CLOaK OF the Mausgeist
Wondrous item, very rare (requires attunement)
This fine garment is made of mausgeist fur with a silk 
lining. While wearing it, you gain the following benefits:
• You have advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks 
that rely on hearing.
• You have advantage on saving throws against spells 
and other magical effects.
• You can use an action to cast the charm person spell 
(save DC 13). The spell affects any creature within 
30 feet of you. Once used, this property of the cloak 
can’t be used again until the next dawn.
CLOaK OF the stygian bat
Wondrous item, rare (requires attunement)
This cloak is made from the hide of stygian bats, bristling 
with coarse black hairs. While wearing the cloak, you 
have advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely 
on hearing. 
In addition, you can activate the cloak to gain a fly 
speed of 30 feet for one minute. While it is active, you 
also have blindsight (120 ft.) and have advantage on 
Dexterity saving throws while in the air. The cloak cannot 
be activated again until the wearer finishes a long rest.
CLOaK OF therianthrOpy
Wondrous Item, rare (requires attunement)
This spotted grey cloak is made of cured styrkvisnar 
hide. While wearing this cloak, you have advantage on 
Strength (Athletics) checks. 
As an action, you can command the cloak to transform 
you into a wolf, eagle, or seal for up to 1 hour. The 
transformation otherwise functions as the polymorph 
spell, but you can use a bonus action to revert to your 
normal form. The cloak can’t be used this way again 
until the next dawn.
COLdrazOr
Weapon (handaxe), legendary (requires attunement)
This magical handaxe is wielded by the memori lich 
known as Runa Banasár. It appears to be made of ice, 
carved with runes and studded with tiny, glittering 
gems of various types.
You gain a +3 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls 
made with this weapon. On a successful attack, the 
weapon does an additional 14 (4d6) cold damage. If a 
single attack does more than 20 points of cold damage, 
the target must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving 
throw or be stunned until the end of its next turn.
Additionally, the attuned wielder can call Coldrazor 
back to their hand immediately after throwing it.
COrrupted tusK-dagger 
Weapon (dagger), rare
This dagger is fashioned from the fangs of a dragonborn 
vampire. When a wielder scores a critical hit with the 
dagger, the weapon damage is 4d4 instead of 1d4. In 
addition, on a critical hit, the target must succeed on a 
DC 15 Constitution saving throw or be stunned until the 
end of its next turn.
414
Grim Hollow monster Grimoire
CrOwn OF the KeppMir King
Wondrous item, very rare (requires attunement)
The platinum crown is adorned with black gems 
and shells. When worn, the crown increases your 
Constitution to 20. You have resistance to cold and can 
breathe underwater. 
Curse. This crown is cursed, a fact revealed only 
when an identify spell is cast on the crown or you attune 
to it. Attuning to the crown curses you until you are 
targeted by the remove curse spell or similar magic; it is 
impossible to remove the crown. While cursed, you turn 
into a keppmir after 2d10 days.
eLixir OF eLeMentaL spittLe
Potion, rare
This foul-smelling liquid is made from the saliva of 
an elemental troll. When consumed, you can use a 
bonus action to spit energy at a creature within 5 feet 
for 1 minute. The target must succeed on a DC 12 
Dexterity saving throw or take 7 (2d6) damage of a type 
corresponding to the troll whose spittle was used to craft 
the potion. No damage is inflicted on a successful save.
If the target of the spell rolls a natural 20 on their 
saving throw, the potion explodes inside you, doing 6d6 
damage of the potion’s energy type to you. The potion 
becomes ineffective after the explosion.
eLixir OF LiFe prOteCtiOn
Potion, rare
When you drink this thick, chalky mixture, your 
maximum hit points cannot be reduced by a melee 
weapon attack from an undead creature for 10 minutes.
enChanted Feather
Wondrous Item, uncommon
This magical feather can sometimes be found growing 
from a rabenhex. As an action while the feather is on 
your person, you can cast remove curse on one creature 
or object. If the object is a cursed magic item, its curse 
remains, but the spell breaks its owner’s attunement 
to the object so it can be removed or discarded. The  
feather’s magic is expended after the curse is removed, 
whereupon the feather becomes nonmagical.
FLaMMabLe tinCture
Potion, uncommon
This swirling mixture of red and white liquid is formed 
from the remains of a coldfire ooze. As an action, the vial 
of flammable tincture can be hurled up to 30 feet at a 
target, which must succeed one a DC 10 Dexterity saving 
throw or be covered with the liquid. For 1 minute, the 
creature is vulnerable to fire damage. This overrides any 
previous immunity or resistance.
gLass-studded arMOr
Armor (studded leather), rare (requires attunement)
While wearing this armor, you have resistance to radiant 
damage. Each time a creature makes a melee attack against 
you, it takes 3 piercing damage. A creature can choose to 
make an attack with disadvantage to avoid this damage.
gOLd bOar ring
Ring, uncommon
The ring, made from the bristles of the gold mane boar, 
sheds bright light in a 20-foot radius and dim light for an 
additional 20 feet. This light shines even in areas where 
magic does not function normally, or where magical 
light would normally be suppressed.
grenade OF reMOrse
Wondrous item, rare
This substance, harvested from the tears of a remorseful 
storm, proves toxic to creatures of unnatural origins. 
You can throw the grenade up to 30 feet as an action, 
and all creatures within 20 feet of the point of impact are 
covered in the grenade’s contents. 
Upon contact with this liquid, all fiends, aberrations, 
or undead creatures must succeed on a DC 17 Constitu-
tion saving throw, taking 28 (8d6) psychic damage on a 
failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. 
All other creature types take no damage.
gristaLine
Potion, uncommon
This gruesome mixture is made from ground mouruge 
bones, along with rotten meat and mud. When consumed, 
your Strength score changes to 19 for one hour. The potion 
has no effect on you if your Strength is greater than 19. 
You also have disadvantage on Intelligence ability checks 
and saving throws for the duration.
hOgs’ wash
Potion, rare
This foul-tasting tea is brewed from the powdered tusks 
of doom boars. If you drink this potion, it acts as a remove 
curse. Additionally, hogs’ wash can be used as a component 
in removing stronger curses that cannot be removed 
with a normal remove curse casting. (See Grim Hollow: The 
Campaign Guide for more details on curse removal.)
KniFewing Cape
Wondrous item, rare (requires attunement)
While wearing this cloak made from the skin of 20 
knifewings, you gain a +1 bonus to AC. In addition, 
when you fall while wearing this cloak, you descend 
60 feet per round and take no damage from falling.
415
Chapter 4: MagiC iteMs and salvage
LindwyrM venOM
Potion (poison), very rare
This terrible venom is extracted and distilled from the 
deadly lindwyrm. It can be delivered via ingestion or a 
wound. A creature exposed to the venom must succeed 
on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw or take 36 (8d8) 
poison damage and be poisoned for 1 minute. While 
poisoned, the creature has disadvantage on Strength and 
Dexterity skill checks and saving throws.
Living net
Weapon (net), uncommon 
This net is made of wire and thread from a suture golem. 
The net coils and moves on its own as if it were alive. 
The net moves and tightens to better restrain a creature 
caught within. A DC 15 Strength check is required to 
break free, and it has an AC of 15. Dealing 15 points of 
slashing damage also frees the trapped creature. Addi-
tionally, if the net is destroyed, the threads reconnect and 
repair after 1 minute.
LyCanthrOpy antidOte
Potion, rare
This silvery potion, made with fzeg blood, is dotted with 
flecks of red. Drinking this liquid removes the curse of 
werewolf lycanthropy.
LyCan weapOn
Weapon (any), rare
Made from the claws, teeth, and bones of lycanthropes, 
these weapons are particularly effective against other 
lycanthropes or vampires. You gain a +2 bonus to attack 
and damage rolls made with this weapon.
Additionally, on a successful attack against a 
lycanthrope, the target is forced back into its human 
form unless it succeeds on a DC 10 Charisma saving 
throw. Also, damage done to vampires with lycan 
weapons cannot be regenerated until the creature finishes 
a short rest.
Magebane bOMb
Wondrous item, rare
This bubbling liquid is distilled from the remains of 
a magebane ooze. You can throw the container at an 
enemy’s weapon or armor, or at a spellcaster. 
Make a simple ranged weapon attack. On a hit, the 
target takes 3 (1d6) acid damage, and their weapon takes a 
-1 penalty to attacks and damage or their armor takes a -1 
penalty to the AC it offers until they complete a long rest.
If the target is a spellcaster and you hit them with 
the bomb, for 1 minute they take a -1 penalty to hit with 
spell attacks, and the DCs of their saving throws against 
spells they can decrease by 1.
MaLLeus MaCabre
Weapon (greatclub), very rare (requires attunement by a 
fighter or barbarian)
This weapon is a blunt but jagged-edged bludgeon that 
is the object form of a kokela. You gain a +4 bonus to 
damage rolls made with this weapon, and attack rolls 
made with this weapon score a critical hit on a roll of 
19 or 20. If you have abilities that increase your critical 
range with melee weapon attacks, this weapon scores a 
critical hit on a roll of 17-20.
Curse. This weapon is cursed. Attuning to it curses 
you until you spend one year at least a mile away from 
the weapon. While you remain cursed, you’re unwilling 
to part with the club, always keeping it within reach. 
You also have disadvantage on attack rolls with weapons 
other than this one, unless no foe is within 60 feet of you 
that you can see or hear.
Whenever you roll a critical hit with this weapon, after 
damage is normally dealt, there is a 25% chance the malleus 
macabre casts a 9th-level cloudkill spell centered on you. 
MasK OF the MaestrO
Wondrous Item, uncommon
Carved from yew, this mask is shaped in the likeness 
of a beast’s visage and has 3 charges. While wearing 
the mask, you can expend 1 charge and use the mask to 
cast the polymorph spell on yourself. The magic lasts for 
only 1 minute.
Curse. This item is cursed. Wearing it curses you until 
you are targeted by a remove curse spell or similar magic. 
While you remain cursed, you cannot remove the mask.
MOrOse MOnOCLe
Wondrous item, uncommon
While wearing this opaque, grey eyepiece, you can see 
any humanoid creature experiencing significant pain, 
sorrow, or guilt, as well as any grief eaters within 60 
ft. of you. These creatures are seen as white silhouettes 
that shine brighter the stronger their emotional turmoil. 
However, the wearer cannot discern anything else looking 
through the monocle, and creatures with one eye using 
the monocle are considered blind while looking through 
the eyepiece.
While wearing the monocle, you also gain advantage 
on Wisdom (Insight) checks made to gauge a creature’s 
emotions.
MusCLe graFt
Wondrous item, very rare (requires attunement)
Created through a gruesome process using the treated 
muscle tissue of a bugbear vampire, this magical prosthetic 
can be grafted to a living creature. When you do this, 
you gain a +2 bonus to your Strength score. 
However, you are also overwhelmed with a deep desire 
for raw blood and rare meat, and each week for a year you 
must succeed on a DC 10 Constitution saving throw or else 
become a vampire spawn with no progenitor. The process 
416
Grim Hollow monster Grimoire
of grafting the muscle is quite dangerous requiring, a DC 
15 Constitution saving throw during attunement. Failing 
this saving throw weakens the body, causing you to lose 2 
points of Constitution.
net OF Maiden’s hair
Wondrous item, rare (requires attunement)
Sewn from the plant creature known as maiden’s hair, 
this sweet-smelling piece of headgear bestows lingering 
magical properties.
While wearing the net on your head, you have advantage 
on Charisma (Persuasion) checks. Additionally, you can 
use a bonus action instead of an action to escape grapples, 
and you have advantage on such checks.
nightMare staFF
Staff, uncommon (requires attunement)
This twisted staff is created from the remains of a marra. 
It has 3 charges and regains its expended charges daily at 
dusk. When a creature you can see within 60 feet of you 
damages you while you hold this staff, you can use your 
reaction to expend 1 of the staff’s charges to force the 
creature to succeed on a DC 13 Intelligence saving throw. 
On a failure, the creature sees a phantasm that causes it 
to be frightened of you until the end of its next turn. If 
the creature is already frightened, it also takes 7 (2d6) 
psychic damage.
paraLyzing bOLt 
Weapon (ammunition), uncommon
These serpent tooth-tipped crossbow bolts cause the 
target’s muscles to become rigid, paralyzing the target 
until the end of your next turn unless they succeed on a 
DC 10 Constitution saving throw. Once it hits a target, 
the ammunition is no longer magical.
pigsKin arMOr
Armor (hide), uncommon
This strong, flexible armor made from the hide of ogre 
swine is surprisingly supple. It counts as light armor 
rather than medium armor, and it has a 20% chance of 
protecting the wearer from the extra damage done by a 
critical hit.
While wearing the armor, however, you snore uncon-
trollable while sleeping, and your food intake doubles.
pOtiOn OF gLaCiaL resistanCe
Potion, rare
This brew is made from the ground horns of keppmirs. 
When consumed, this potion allows you to breathe 
underwater for one hour, during which time you gain 
resistance to cold damage. It tastes salty and gives off a 
slight warmth.
pOtiOn OF harM
Potion, rare
This concoction is the result of a failed attempt to make 
a potion of heal from the remains of a downcast vampire. 
When you imbibe this potion, roll 1d4. That becomes 
your new hit point total.
If the potion of harm is given to a creature with 0 hit 
points, they instantly gain one failed death save and 
begin dying if they are stable.
pOtiOn OF heaL
Potion, rare
This very rare liquid is made from the remains of a 
downcast vampire. When you imbibe this potion, 
you regain hit points so that you are at your hit point 
maximum value.
pOtiOn OF LiFe sharing
Potion, rare
This shimmering liquid changes colors constantly within 
its vial. Made from the acid glands of the dreaded 
wolfentroika, this potion allows you to share your life 
force with others.
For 1 minute after drinking the potion, you can target 
one creature within 30 feet of you that you can see or 
hear. As a bonus action, you can remove up to 20 hit 
points from your own total, healing the targeted creature 
for that amount. At the end of the minute, you gain a 
level of exhaustion.
pOtiOn OF MaLiCe
Potion, rare
This brew is made from the spore sacs of three grippers. 
When consumed, this potion causes the imbiber to give 
off spores that anger enemies within 10 feet. Those 
enemies must succeed on a DC 10 Wisdom saving throw 
or they must target the imbiber with their attacks for 1 
minute. All weapon attacks are made with disadvantage.
pOtiOn OF reLentLessness
Potion, very rare
When you drink this viscous potion made of quoxxarie 
blood, you are harder to knock unconscious. When 
damage would reduce you to 0 hit points, you spend 
a hit die and are at 1 hit point instead. The effect of the 
potion lasts for 1 minute, and at the end of that time you 
gain a level of exhaustion for each hit die spent unless 
you succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw.
quaKesCaLe arMOr
Armor (scale mail), uncommon
Fashioned from the scales of a quake drake, this armor 
rumbles softly with the sound of thunder during storms. 
While wearing it, you have resistance to thunder damage.
417
Chapter 4: MagiC iteMs and salvage
ready gunK
Wondrous item, rare
This sticky paste is fashioned from the powdered bone 
armor of a bone trader. When you treat a weapon, shield, 
or other item that can be wielded in one or two hands, 
you can use a bonus action to summon and equip it, as 
long as the item is within 30 feet of you. After using the 
magic of the paste three times, it loses its potency.
resusCitatiOn bOMb
Potion, rare
This foul-smelling concoction is made from the remains of 
stinking sludge. As an action, the vial holding this brew 
can be dropped in a space within 10 feet of the wielder. 
The vial breaks, releasing a noxious vapor that spreads to 
a 30-foot radius. Any unconscious, sleeping, incapacitated, 
or stunned creature is instantly awakened, removing 
those conditions. A dying creature gains advantage on 
their next death saving throw. Creatures not suffering 
from those conditions or dying must succeed on a DC 15 
Constitution saving throw or be poisoned for 1 minute.
ring OF nightMares
Ring, rare (requires attunement by spellcaster)
This ring, crafted using the powdered brain of a restless 
lumberer, has 3 charges, and it regains 1d3 expended 
charges daily at dawn. While wearing the ring, you can use 
a bonus action to expend 1 charge to change the damage 
type of a spell you cast before the end of your turn to psychic 
damage.
In addition, while attuned to the ring, you’re immune 
to spells or magical abilities that interfere with your sleep 
or cause nightmares while you sleep.
sizzLing seruM
Potion, uncommon
Created from the ichor in a potbelly’s stomach-pot, this 
volatile concoction is effective at damaging inorganic 
substances. As an action, you can hurl the serum up 
to 30 feet at a construct or dump it onto an object. A 
construct or object must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution 
saving throw or take 35 (10d6) fire damage, or half as 
much on a successful save.
staFF OF briars
Staff, uncommon
This wooden staff is made from the harvested claws of 
braerog. It has 10 charges when it is created. While holding 
it, you can use an action to expend 1 charge from the staff 
and cause thorny vines to sprout from a patch of earth or 
soil in a 20-foot square within 5 feet of you, or from the staff 
itself. Unless you choose a specific kind of briar plant, the 
staff creates a rose patch. These plants turn the ground in 
the area into difficult terrain. The briar patch is nonmagical, 
and it grows or withers as a normal plant would.
The staff regains 1d6 + 4 expended charges daily at 
dawn. If you expend the last charge, roll a d20. On a 1, 
the staff turns into rose petals and is lost forever.
suit OF the LaMb
Wondrous item, rare
This suit of comfortable woolen clothes, made from the 
wool of the rare and dangerous poffer, includes a shirt, 
trousers or a kilt, and thick socks. While wearing the suit, 
you have resistance to lightning damage, and you don’t 
suffer effects from extreme cold weather.
taLisMan OF tOrMaCh
Wondrous item, rare (requires attunement)
The dreadful talisman is crafted from the skull at the 
center of a gore elemental. When a creature wearing the 
talisman strikes a killing blow with a melee weapon, 
that creature gains 10 temporary hit points for 1 minute. 
While it has those temporary hit points, its melee weapon 
attacks deal an additional 3 (1d6) necrotic damage.
teLLtaLe heart
Wondrous Item, uncommon (requires attunement)
This cherry-sized bloodstone heart is the beating center 
of a poppet. While on your person, you have advantage 
on saving throws against becoming frightened. If an 
effect causes you to be frightened without a saving 
throw, you receive a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw to 
avoid the condition.
Also, when you make an Intelligence ability check 
while holding the stone, you can listen to it, gaining 
unusual insight or access to esoteric lore. If you do so, 
you gain advantage on that Intelligence check. The 
telltale heart can’t be used this way again until you finish 
a long rest.
tOrMaCh’s bLessed weapOn
Weapon (any melee), common
Dedicated followers of Tormach sometimes gain the 
blessing of the Lord of Blood Oaths. When they do, their 
weapons gain a spark of the Marauder’s power. On 
a successful attack, the wielder can force the target to 
succeed on a DC 10 Strength saving throw or be knocked 
prone. This ability can be used again when the wielder 
finishes a long rest.
At the start of each day there is a 10% chance that the 
spark leaves the weapon, making it a normal item.
wand OF siLenCe
Wand, uncommon (requires attunement by a spellcaster)
This wand has 7 charges. While holding it, you can use 
an action to expend 1 charge to cast the silence spell (save 
DC 15). The wand regains 1d6+1 expended charges daily 
at dawn. If you expend the wand’s last charge, roll a d20. 
On a 1, the wand crumbles into ashes and is destroyed.