===
Yggdrasili Drone
Medium humanoid, lawful evil
Armor Class 11
Hit Points 18 (4d8)
Speed 30 ft.
str dex con int wis cha
 12 (+1) 13 (+1) 10 (+0) 17 (+3) 11 (+0) 12 (+1)
Saving Throws
Wis +2
Skills
Deception +5, Perception +2
Damage Vulnerabilities
lightning
Damage Resistances
psychic
Condition
Immunities
charmed
Senses blindsight 15 ft., passive Perception 12
Languages all, telepathy 30 ft.
Challenge 1/2 (100 XP)
Proficiency Bonus +2
Assimilation.
A creature that drops to 0 hit points or
fails a death saving throw within 15 feet of an yggdrasili
drone must succeed on a DC 13 Charisma saving throw
or become an yggdrasili drone. A creature near enough
to multiple yggdrasilis needs to make only one saving
throw at the highest DC among those yggdrasilis. This
effect can penetrate barriers, but 2 feet of rock, 2 inches
of any metal other than lead, or a thin sheet of lead or
barrier of force blocks it.
Psychic Feedback.
When the yggdrasili drone takes
psychic damage, creatures within 5 feet of it must succeed
on a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or take the same
amount of psychic damage. If withing 5 feet of multiple
yggdrasilis, a creature attempts the save only once and
takes only the highest amount of psychic damage.
Psychic Static.
Attempts to read an yggdrasili drone’s
thoughts fail. The creature making the attempt must
succeed on a DC 13 Intelligence saving throw or take 8
(2d4 + 3) psychic damage.
actions
Slam.
Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft., one
target.
Hit: 3 (1d4 + 1) bludgeoning damage.
Psychic Lash.
A creature the yggdrasili drone can sense
within 30 feet of it must succeed on a DC 13 Intelligence
saving throw or take 8 (2d4 + 3) psychic damage.
===
Yggdrasili Cloud
Huge monstrosity, lawful evil
Armor Class 14
Hit Points 65 (10d12)
Speed 30 ft., fly 30 ft. (hover)
str dex con int wis cha
 6 (–2) 19 (+4) 10 (+0) 18 (+4) 14 (+2) 13 (+1)
Saving Throws
Wis +5
Skills
Perception +5, Stealth +7
Damage Vulnerabilities
lightning
Damage Immunities poison, psychic
Damage Resistances
bludgeoning, slashing, and
piercing from nonmagical attacks
Condition Immunities blinded, charmed, deafened,
exhaustion, grappled, poisoned, prone, restrained
Senses blindsight 30 ft., passive Perception 15
Languages all, telepathy 60 ft.
Challenge 5 (1,800 XP)
Proficiency Bonus +3
Assimilation.
A creature that drops to 0 hit points or
fails a death saving throw within 30 feet of an yggdrasili
cloud must succeed on a DC 15 Charisma saving throw
or become an yggdrasili drone. A creature near enough
to multiple yggdrasilis needs to make only one saving
throw at the highest DC among those yggdrasilis. This
effect can penetrate barriers, but 2 feet of rock, 2 inches
of any metal other than lead, or a thin sheet of lead or
barrier of force blocks it.
Cloud.
The yggdrasili cloud can occupy another
creature’s space and vice versa, and the cloud can move
through any opening large enough for air to enter, but it
can’t enter or move through liquid.
Misty Stealth.
While in misty conditions, in the sky
among clouds, or underwater, the yggdrasili cloud has
advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks made to hide,
and it can take the Hide action as a bonus action.
Psychic Static.
Attempts to read an yggdrasili cloud’s
thoughts fail. The creature making the attempt must
succeed on a DC 15 Intelligence saving throw or take
11 (2d6 + 4) psychic damage.
actions
Multiattack.
The yggdrasili cloud uses psychic thrash
twice. With each use, the cloud can target up to two crea-
tures, provided one of those creatures is in the cloud’s space.
Psychic Thrash.
A creature the yggdrasili cloud can sense
within 60 ft. of it must succeed on a DC 15 Intelligence saving
throw or take 11 (2d6 + 4) psychic damage. If the saving
throw fails by 5 or more, the creature is also incapacitated
for 1 minute. The creature ceases being incapacitated
if it takes damage, or another creature uses an action
to shake the incapacitated creature from its stupor. An
incapacitated creature can also repeat the saving throw
at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself
on a success.
possess the minds of mortals. Yggdrasilis have resistance
or immunity to psychic damage.
DC 13 Intelligence (Arcana): Yggdrasilis are wary of
storms. They avoid going outside if they’ve recently seen
lightning or heard thunder. That’s because all yggdrasilis
are vulnerable to lightning damage.
DC 15 Intelligence (Religion): A living yggdrasili
drone can be turned back into its former self if it’s
deprived of contact with the hivemind for 24 hours.
Someone must cast
remove curse
or
greater restoration
on
the drone, or use similar magic.
