===
the Churning
Gargantuan ooze, neutral
Armor Class 10 (natural armor)
Hit Points 310 (20d20 + 100)
Speed 30 ft., climb 30 ft., swim 30 ft.
str dex con int wis cha
	30	(+10)	2	(–4)	20	(+5)	3	(–4)	10	(+0)	3	(–4)
Damage Immunities poison
Condition Immunities charmed, deafened, exhaustion,
frightened, grappled, paralyzed, petrified, poisoned,
prone, restrained, unconscious
Senses passive Perception 10
Languages —
Challenge 16 (15,000 XP)
Proficiency Bonus +5
Enormous Space.
The Churning has a space 60 feet on
a side and takes up that entire space. Other creatures can
enter this space, but a creature that does so is subjected
to the Churning’s Engulf.
Magic Resistance.
The Churning has advantage on
saving throws against spells and other magical effects.
Siege Monster.
The Churning deals double damage to
objects and structures.
Unstoppable.
The Churning ignores difficult terrain,
and nothing can reduce its speed or stop it from moving
on its turn.
actions
Pseudopod.
Melee Weapon Attack: +15 to hit, reach 20 ft.,
one target.
Hit: 24 (4d6 + 10) bludgeoning damage. If the
target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 23 Strength
or Dexterity saving throw (target’s choice) or be pulled
within 5 feet of the Churning.
Engulf.
The Churning moves up to its speed and can
enter creatures’ spaces. The creature must make a DC
23 Strength or Dexterity saving throw (target’s choice).
On a successful save, the creature chooses to leave the
Churning’s path or it fails the save. On a failed save,
the creature takes 40 (10d6 + 5) bludgeoning damage
and is engulfed. The engulfed creature can’t breathe,
is blinded, is restrained, and has total cover from effects
that originate outside the Churning. At the start of each
of the Churning’s turns, engulfed creatures take 42 (12d6)
bludgeoning damage. When the Churning moves,
engulfed creatures move with it.
An engulfed creature can escape (DC 23). On a success,
the creature escapes and uses 15 feet of movement to enter
a space of its choice within 5 feet of the Churning.
If the Churning dies, an engulfed creature is no longer
restrained by it. If a creature dies inside the Churning,
the creature’s body breaks up. The Churning keeps
inside it anything the dead creature wore or carried.
reactions
Reactive Grab.
A creature that moves while within the
Churning’s reach provokes an opportunity attack. The
Churning can make four opportunity attacks each round.
