===
Lupilisk Elder
Large fiend, neutral evil
Armor Class 15 (natural armor)
Hit Points 97 (13d10 + 26)
Speed 50 ft.
str dex con int wis cha
 18 (+4) 16 (+3) 15 (+2) 6 (–2) 14 (+2) 8 (–1)
Skills
Perception +5, Stealth +6
Damage Immunities poison
Damage Resistances
cold, fire
Condition Immunities poisoned
Senses darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 15
Languages can learn languages but can’t speak
Challenge 6 (2,300 XP)
Proficiency Bonus +3
Keen Hearing and Smell.
The lupilisk elder has
advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on
hearing or smell.
Pack Tactics.
The lupilisk elder has advantage on
an attack roll against a creature if at least one of the
lupilisk’s allies is within 5 feet of the creature and the
ally isn’t incapacitated.
actions
Bite.
Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.
Hit: 13 (2d8 + 4) piercing damage and 9 (2d8) poison
damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a
DC 13 Constitution saving throw or become poisoned
and restrained while poisoned in this way. The creature
must repeat the saving throw at the end of its next turn.
On a success, the effect ends. If the save fails again, the
creature is permanently petrified.
Pack Attack (Recharge 5–6).
One lupilisk or lupilisk
whelp the lupilisk elder can see within 30 feet of it can
use a reaction to move up to half its speed and make
a bite attack. The target must be able to hear or see the
elder. The lupilisk elder then makes one bite attack.
===
Lupilisk Whelp
Medium fiend, neutral evil
Armor Class 12
Hit Points 33 (6d8 + 6)
Speed 40 ft.
str dex con int wis cha
 13 (+1) 14 (+2) 12 (+1) 3 (–4) 11 (+0) 6 (–2)
Skills
Perception +2, Stealth +4
Damage Immunities poison
Damage Resistances
cold, fire
Condition Immunities poisoned
Senses darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 12
Languages can learn languages but can’t speak
Challenge 1 (200 XP)
Proficiency Bonus +2
Keen Hearing and Smell.
The lupilisk whelp has
advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on
hearing or smell.
Pack Tactics.
The lupilisk whelp has advantage on
an attack roll against a creature if at least one of the
lupilisk’s allies is within 5 feet of the creature and the
ally isn’t incapacitated.
actions
Bite.
Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.
Hit: 7 (2d4 + 2) piercing damage and 5 (2d4) poison damage.
If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 11
Constitution saving throw or become poisoned and
restrained while poisoned in this way. The creature
must repeat the saving throw at the end of its next turn.
On a success, the effect ends. If the save fails again, the
creature is petrified for 24 hours.
Lupilisks prefer to play with their food, chasing and
tormenting it before turning it to stone. The lupilisk then
eats the rocky remains. As with a basilisk, the lupilisk’s
gullet reverses the petrification, turning stone to flesh
once it reaches the creature’s stomach.
Family Pack.
In the wild, lupilisks gather in packs. A
dominant elder couple leads the pack, and other pack
members are that couple’s offspring. Juvenile males seek
mates from other packs, while juvenile females decide
whether to take visiting males as mates. A lupilisk pack
is a family, its adult children leaving to form new packs.
Trained Mounts.
A lupilisk is more beast than fiend.
They’re aggressive and cruel, but they can be controlled
if trained with firm discipline.
