378
G
rim
H
ollow
m
onster
G
rimoire
•
Thick mist rolls out from the vampire’s position in a
30-foot-radius sphere. The sphere spreads around corners,
and its area is heavily obscured for all creatures except
the vampire. It lasts until the vampire takes another lair
action, the vampire uses a bonus action to dismiss it, the
vampire drops to 0 hit points, or a wind of moderate or
greater speed (at least 10 miles per hour) disperses it.
regional effects
The power of an adult or ancient vampire’s curse
changes the region surrounding the vampire’s lair,
creating any of the following effects: •
Biting insects and their larvae increase noticeably in
population within 1 mile of the lair.
•
Unnerving natural sounds—twigs breaking, leaves
crunching, trees creaking, and so on—are louder
within 1 mile of the lair.
•
Plants within 500 feet of the lair are tougher, twisted,
and any thorns or thistles they have are longer and
more painful when they prick.
•
The air within 500 feet of the lair is noticeably colder
and smells faintly of blood. This cooling of the air
makes mist more likely around the lair.
If the vampire dies, these effects linger for one week,
then dissipate over 1d6 days.
vampire salvage
Vampires have treasure. How much depends on their
age and lair. A vampire’s body can also be valuable, also
depending on age.
Treasure.
Vampires keep mementos of their history
and kills. Some say they do so to maintain a connection
to life, whether to their past existence or to the lives
they have extinguished. Others suggest this hoarding is
practical—a vampire has a harder time engaging in trade
and wants to keep objects they might later need.
Younger vampires seldom own more than they can
carry. If beholden to an older vampire, a younger one
must often give up a portion of their wealth to the elder.
Spawn and young vampires retain personal trinkets
related to their living existence.
As a vampire ages, their collection grows. Rarer
items end up among the baubles, coins, and jewels. The
vampire might also acquire real property and have the
deed or title to land or buildings.
Ancient vampires have and might use an array of
magic items. An ancient might attune to an item and
bathe it in blood regularly, eventually imparting a
curse that makes a new owner seek vampirism. Ancient
vampires are also the most likely to have magical
contingencies set up, such as an item that stores the
vampire’s soul if they die or acts as a vessel for an effect
such as a
magic jar
spell.
Vampire Parts.
As a vampire ages, their flesh becomes
tainted with supernatural forces. Someone who prepares
and uses certain parts of a vampire can gain some ben-
efits… at a price. Older vampires have the material traits
of younger vampires. Some of these materials must be
consumed (they needn’t be consumed fresh or raw), and if
a humanoid does so and dies within 24 hours, that person
rises as a vampire spawn the night after being buried.
Spawn.
Someone who has proficiency with alchemist’s
supplies or cook’s utensils can render a vampire spawn
or older vampire’s flesh in a manner like that done
to produce candle tallow. Doing so for one vampire
requires 1 day of work, other materials worth 50 gp, and
a successful DC 13 Intelligence or Wisdom check. The
result from a typical vampire is three applications of an
ointment. Applying the ointment takes 1 minute and
causes any vampire to have disadvantage on Wisdom
(Perception) checks to sense the user. Also, the ointment
repels insects and arachnids, who have disadvantage on
Wisdom (Perception) checks and attack rolls against the
user. They usually leave the user alone. The user also has
advantage on saving throws against magically produced
insects, such as the
insect plague
spell. One application
lasts 1 hour.
Someone who has proficiency with alchemist’s
supplies or an herbalism kit can powder the vampire’s
claws and mix them with reagents worth 50 gp. Brewing
takes 3 hours. The result is a
potion of climbing
that also
allows the drinker to climb upside down along ceilings.
Young.
A living creature can eat a young or older vampire’s
eye to gain darkvision in a radius of 60 feet or increase their
existing darkvision by that distance for 1 hour.
Adult.
An adult or older vampire’s tongue can be eaten.
A non-beast who does so can comprehend and verbally
communicate with beasts for 1 hour. A beast instead
gains the ability to speak one language the vampire
knew for the same duration. The eater must succeed on a
DC 13 Constitution saving throw or become poisoned for
the same duration and unable to regain hit points while
poisoned in this way. Beasts who eat vampire parts often
reanimate as zombies when they die.
Ancient.
Someone who has proficiency with alchemist’s
supplies or an herbalism kit can powder an ancient vampire’s
bones with reagents worth 1,000 gp. Doing so requires
3 days of work and a successful DC 15 Intelligence or
Wisdom check. If the process is successful, it produces
four doses of a powder that, if eaten, reduces age by 2d4
years. It also removes all exhaustion, cures all diseases,
and neutralizes any poison. For 8 hours, the powder
maximizes any healing the eater receives, including from
Hit Dice. For 1 hour, the eater has advantage on Strength
checks and saving throws, and they deal 1d4 extra
damage with Strength-based weapon attacks. The eater
also has resistance to all damage for 1 minute. Eating the
powder, however, extends the time that a creature might
rise as a vampire spawn if slain and buried to 13 days.
