15
G
rim
H
ollow
m
onster
G
rimoire
A
===
Chalk Chatterling
Small construct, unaligned
Armor Class 12
Hit Points 22 (5d6 + 5)
Speed 25 ft., fly 25 ft.
str dex con int wis cha
	5	(–3)	15	(+2)	12	(+1)	4	(–3)	10	(+0)	7	(–2)
Damage Immunities poison
Condition Immunities charmed, exhaustion, grappled,
paralyzed, petrified, poisoned, prone, restrained
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10
Languages — (seems to speak, but it’s gibberish)
Challenge 1/2 (100 XP)
Proficiency Bonus +2
Death Burst
. When the chalk chatterling dies, it explodes
in a burst of dust. Any creature within 5 feet of the chalk
chatterling must succeed on a DC 11 Constitution saving
throw or be blinded until the end of its next turn.
Distracting Chatter
. Any creature that starts its turn
within 30 feet of and able to hear the chalk chatterling
must succeed on a DC 11 Wisdom saving throw or be
unable to cast or maintain concentration on a spell. Con-
structs and undead are immune. A creature who intended
to cast a spell can choose another course of action.
Water Weakness
. If the chalk chatterling is doused
in water or ends its turn submerged in water, the chalk
chatterling takes 3 (1d6) acid damage. Maximize this
damage if the water is soapy.
actions
Dust Whip
.
Melee Weapon Attack
: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.
Hit
: 7 (2d4 + 2) slashing damage. Maddening Chatter (Recharge 6).
Each creature
within 30 feet of and able to hear the chalk chatterling
must make a DC 11 Wisdom saving throw, taking 7
(2d6) psychic damage on a failed save, and half as much
damage on a successful one. Constructs and undead are
immune. A creature that fails the saving throw can’t take
reactions until the end of the chalk chatterling’s next turn.
===
Inkfester
Large construct (shapechanger), unaligned
Armor Class 12
Hit Points 60 (8d10 + 16)
Speed 30 ft., climb 30 ft.
str dex con int wis cha
	11	(+0)	15	(+2)	14	(+2)	5	(–3)	10	(+0)	12	(+1)
Skills
Stealth +4
Damage Immunities poison
Damage Resistances
bludgeoning, piercing, and
slashing from nonmagical attacks
Condition Immunities charmed, exhaustion, grappled,
paralyzed, petrified, poisoned, prone, restrained
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10
Languages —
Challenge 3 (700 XP)
Proficiency Bonus +2
Death Burst
. When an inkfester dies, it explodes in a
burst of ink. Any creature within 5 feet of the inkfester
must succeed on a DC 12 Constitution saving throw or
be blinded until the end of its next turn.
Shapechanger.
The inkfester’s normal form is a two-
dimensional pattern of runes on a flat surface. Until it
takes an action or moves, the inkfester is indistinguishable
from ink on that surface. As part of its action to attack, the
inkfester can change form.
Spider Climb.
The inkfester can climb difficult surfaces,
including upside down on ceilings, without needing to
make an ability check.
Water Weakness
. If the inkfester is doused in water or
ends its turn submerged in water, the inkfester takes 3 (1d6)
acid damage. Maximize this damage if the water is soapy.
actions
Fearful Glyphs
. The inkfester chooses up to two crea-
tures within 30 ft. of and able to see it. Each target must
succeed on a DC 12 Wisdom saving throw or take 8 (2d6 + 1)
psychic damage from disturbing symbolism and imagery.
Consuming Mist
. The inkfester takes on the form
of a cloud of dark ink. In this form the inkfester has a
fly speed of 20 feet and can hover, and it can occupy a
hostile creature’s space. In this form, the inkfester has
advantage on Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution
saving throws, and it’s immune to nonmagical damage
other than from acid or water.
Each creature that starts its turn in the inkfester’s space
must make a DC 12 Strength or Dexterity saving throw
(target’s choice). On a failure, a target takes 9 (2d6 + 2)
acid damage. A Large or smaller creature is also grap-
pled (escape DC 12). On a successful save, the target
takes half the damage and isn’t grappled. Any creature
that remains in the inkfester’s space can’t breathe.
A creature within 5 feet of the inkfester can pull a creature
or object out of it by taking an action and succeeding on
a DC 12 Strength (Athletics) check. However, the rescuer
takes 3 (1d6) acid damage.
