===
Vampire, Downcast (Adult)
Medium undead
Armor Class 16 (natural armor)
Hit Points 154 (17d8 + 85)
Speed 30 ft.
str dex con int wis cha
 18 (+4) 16 (+3) 20 (+5) 13 (+1) 16 (+3) 15 (+1)
Saving Throws
Con +10, Dex +8, Wis +8
Skills
Athletics +9, Perception +8, Stealth +8
Damage Resistances
bludgeoning, piercing, and
slashing from nonmagical attacks
Damage Immunities radiant
Senses darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 18
Languages the languages it knew in life
Challenge 13 (10,000 XP)
Proficiency Bonus +5
Regeneration
. The vampire regains 15 hit points at
the start of its turn if it has at least 1 hit point and isn’t in
magical darkness or running water. If the vampire takes
necrotic damage, this trait doesn’t function at the start of
the vampire’s next turn.
Legendary Resistance (1/Day)
. If the vampire fails a
saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead.
Turn Immunity
. The downcast vampire is immune to
effects that turn undead.
Shapechanger
. If the vampire isn’t in magical
darkness or running water, it can use its action to
polymorph into a Tiny beast (such as a bat or a mouse)
or a Medium cloud of mist, or back into its true form.
While in beast form, the vampire can’t speak, its
walking speed is that of the new form, including any
flight, climb, or burrow speeds that may be present. Its
statistics, other than its size and speed, are unchanged.
Anything it is wearing is transforms with it, but nothing
it is carrying does. It reverts to its true form if it dies.
While in mist form, the vampire can’t take any actions,
speak, or manipulate objects. It is weightless, has a
flying speed of 20 feet, can hove, and can enter a hostile
creature’s space and stop there. In addition, if air can
pass through a space, the mist can do so without squeezing,
and it can’t pass through water. It has advantage on
Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution saving throws,
and it is immune to all nonmagical damage, except the
damage it takes from running water.
Misty Escape
. When it drops to 0 hit points outside
of its resting place, the vampire transforms into a cloud
of mist (as in the Shapechanger trait) instead of falling
unconscious, provided that it isn’t in magical darkness or
running water. If it can’t transform, it is destroyed.
While it has 0 hit points in mist form, it can’t revert
to its vampire form, and it must reach its resting place
within 2 hours or be destroyed. Once in its resting place,
it reverts to its vampire form. It is then paralyzed until it
regains at least 1 hit point. After spending 1 hour in its
resting place with 0 hit points, it regains 1 hit point.
Spider Climb
. The vampire can climb difficult surfaces,
including upside down on ceilings, without needing to
make an ability check.
Vampire Weaknesses
. The vampire has the
following flaws: Forbiddance.
The vampire can’t enter a residence
without an invitation from one of the occupants.
Stake to the Heart.
The vampire is destroyed if a
piercing weapon made of wood is driven into its heart
while it is incapacitated in its resting place.
Magical Darkness Sensitivity.
The vampire takes
20 necrotic damage when it starts its turn in magical
darkness. While in magical darkness, it has disadvantage
on attack rolls and ability checks.
Sorrowful Dirge
. The vampire can use a bonus action
on its turn to target one creature within 30 feet of it. If the
target can hear the vampire, the target must succeed on
a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or be deeply affected by
the Celestial-infused tune and be forced to flee the area
for 1 minute or until it takes any damage.
A creature so affected must spend its turns trying to
move as far away from the vampire as it can, and it can’t
willingly move into a space within 30 feet of you. It also
can’t take reactions. For its action, it can use only the
Dash action or try to escape from an effect that prevents
it from moving. If there’s nowhere to move, the creature
can use the Dodge action. A creature with 3 or fewer Hit
Dice that fails this saving throw is immediately reduced
to 0 hit points and falls unconscious as the latent Celestial
magic overloads their mind.
actions
Multiattack
. The vampire makes two attacks, only one
of which can be a bite attack.
Claws (vampire form only)
.
Melee Weapon Attack
: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature.
Hit
: 8 (1d8 + 4) slashing damage. Instead of dealing damage, the vampire can
grapple the target (escape DC 18).
Bite (vampire or beast form only)
.
Melee Weapon
Attack
: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one willing creature, or a creature that is grappled by the vampire or one of its allies,
incapacitated, or restrained.
Hit
: 6 (1d6 + 3) piercing damage plus 10 (3d6) radiant damage. The target’s hit
point maximum is reduced by an amount equal to the
radiant damage taken, and the vampire regains hit points
equal to that amount. The reduction lasts until the target
finishes a long rest. The target dies if this effect reduces
its hit point maximum to 0. A humanoid slain in this way
and then buried in the ground rises the following night
as a vampire spawn under the vampire’s control.
legendary action
The downcast vampire can take 2 legendary actions,
choosing from the options below. Only one legendary
action option can be used at a time and only at the end
of another creature’s turn. The vampire regains spent
legendary actions at the start of its turn.
Move.
The vampire moves up to its speed without
provoking opportunity attacks.
Strike.
The vampire makes one attack with its claws.
