===
Memori Lich
Medium undead, lawful evil
Armor Class 18 (plate)
Hit Points 228 (24d8 + 120)
Speed 30 ft., fly 30 ft.
str dex con int wis cha
 20 (+5) 14 (+2) 20 (+5) 13 (+1) 15 (+2) 15 (+2)
Saving Throws
Dex +8, Con +11, Wis +8
Skills
Arcana +7, Athletics +11, Intimidation +8,
Perception +8
Damage Immunities necrotic, poison
Damage Resistances
bludgeoning, piercing, and
slashing from nonmagical attacks
Condition Immunities charmed, exhaustion,
frightened, paralyzed, poisoned
Senses blindsight 10 ft., darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 18
Languages one or two languages
Challenge 19 (22,000 XP)
Proficiency Bonus +6
Action Surge (Recharges after a Short or Long
Rest).
The memori lich takes one extra action.
Brute.
A weapon deals two extra dice of its damage
when the memori lich hits with it (included in the attack).
Fast Healing.
While at 94 or fewer hit points, the
memori lich regains 10 hit points at the start of each of
its turns. This trait doesn’t function while the lich has
0 hit points.
Immutable.
No effect can alter the memori lich’s form.
Legendary Resistance (3/Day).
If the memori lich
fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead.
Rejuvenation.
If destroyed while its memento skull
remains intact, the memori lich gains a new body in 2d4
days, regaining all its hit points and becoming active again.
Its new body appears within 5 feet of the memento skull.
Superior Critical.
The memori lich scores a critical
hit on a roll of 18–20.
Turn Resistance.
The memori lich has advantage on
saving throws against any effect that turns undead.
actions
Multiattack.
The memori lich uses stunning presence
and makes four attacks. The lich can use wall of fire in
place of one attack.
Greatsword.
Melee Weapon Attack
: +11 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.
Hit
: 19 (4d6 + 5) slashing damage. Stunning Presence.
Each creature of the memori
lich’s choice within 120 feet of and aware of it must
succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or become
stunned for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving
throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect
on itself on a success. If a creature’s saving throw is
successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune
to the lich’s Stunning Presence for the next 24 hours.
Wall of Fire (Recharge 5–6).
The memori lich
creates a wall of fire on a solid surface within 120 feet
of it. The wall can be up to 60 feet long, 20 feet high,
and 1 foot thick, or a ringed wall up to 20 feet in
diameter, 20 feet high, and 1 foot thick. The wall is
opaque and lasts until the start of the lich’s next turn.
When the wall appears, each creature in its area must
make a DC 16 Dexterity saving throw, taking 27 (6d8)
fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage
on a successful one. A creature takes 18 (4d8) fire
damage when it enters the wall for the first time on
a turn or ends its turn there.
legendary actions
The memori lich can take 3 legendary actions, choosing
from the options here. Only one legendary action option
can be used at a time and only at the end of another
creature’s turn. The memori lich regains spent legendary
actions at the start of its turn.
Attack.
The memori lich attacks with a weapon.
Move.
The memori lich moves up to its speed.
Binding Curse (Costs 2 Actions).
The memori lich
targets one creature it can see within 30 feet of it. The
target must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw or
be magically cursed. Until the curse ends, the target can’t
move more than 30 feet from the memori lich and takes
7 (2d6) extra necrotic damage if hit with the memori lich’s
weapon attack. The target can repeat the saving throw
at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself
on a success. The effect otherwise ends in 1 minute, if the
lich becomes incapacitated or dies, or if the target dies.
If the target dies, the lich regains 20 hit points.
Siphon Vitality (Costs 3 Actions, Recharge 6).
This action has no effect on undead or constructs, but
plants have disadvantage on the saving throw. Each
creature within 20 feet of the memori lich must make
a DC 16 Constitution saving throw, taking 27 (6d8)
necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much
damage on a successful one.
