===
Jespaith
Gargantuan undead, chaotic evil
Armor Class 17 (natural armor)
Hit Points 279 (18d20 + 90)
Speed 30 ft., burrow 30 ft.
str dex con int wis cha
	25	(+7)	10	(+0)	20	(+5)	6	(–2)	12	(+1)	4	(−3)
Damage Vulnerabilities
radiant
Damage Immunities acid, necrotic, poison
Condition
Immunities
charmed, exhaustion,
frightened, paralyzed, petrified, poisoned
Senses darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 11
Languages —
Challenge 15 (13,000 XP)
Proficiency Bonus +5
Corruption Aura
. The jespaith corrupts the area
around it, poisoning the air, filling it with biting undead
insects, and sundering the ground. Any creature that
starts its turn within 20 feet of the jespaith takes 5 (2d4)
piercing damage and 5 (2d4) poison damage. The creature
must succeed on a DC 18 Constitution saving throw or
become poisoned until the start of its next turn. On the
ground, this area is difficult terrain and remains so when
the jespaith moves on.
Rock Breaker
. The jespaith can burrow through solid
rock at half its burrow speed, but it leaves behind rubble
rather than a tunnel.
Siege Monster
. The jespaith deals double damage to
objects and structures.
Turn Immunity.
The jespaith is immune to effects
that turn undead.
actions
Multiattack
. The jespaith makes two slam attacks. It
can replace any attack with engulf.
Slam
.
Melee Weapon Attack
: +12 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target.
Hit
: 23 (3d10 + 7) bludgeoning damage and 10 (3d6) poison damage. If the target is a creature, it is
grappled (escape DC 20). The jespaith can grapple up to
four creatures at a time.
Engulf.
Each Huge or smaller creature grappled by the
jespaith must succeed on a DC 20 Strength saving throw
or be pulled into the jespaith’s body. An engulfed target
is blinded, restrained, unable to breathe, and has total
cover from effects that originate outside the jespaith. At
the start of each of the jespaith’s turns, each engulfed
creature takes 23 (3d10 +7) bludgeoning damage and 10
(3d6) acid damage. The jespaith can hold only one Huge
creature, two Large creatures, or up to eight Medium or
smaller creatures inside it at a time.
An engulfed creature can try to escape by taking an
action to make its choice of a DC 20 Strength (Athletics)
or Dexterity (Acrobatics) check. On a success, the
creature escapes and uses 10 feet of movement to enter
a space of its choice within 5 feet of the jespaith.
If the jespaith dies, an engulfed creature is no longer
restrained by it and can escape from the remains by
using 10 feet of movement.
If a creature dies inside the jespaith, the creature’s
body breaks up inside the jespaith. The jespaith keeps
inside it anything the dead creature wore or carried.
Spit (Recharge 5–6)
. The jespaith spits poison and acid
in a 90-foot line that is 10 feet wide. Each creature in that
line must make a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw, taking 18
(4d8) acid damage and 18 (4d8) poison damage on a failed
save, or half as much damage on a successful one.
Scarred Landscape
. As the jespaith moves across the
land, it damages all in its path. Burrowing in and out of
the soil, it scars the landscape. Rocks and boulders lurch
up from unknown depths, foliage turns dry and black,
and the jespaith ploughs the ground, transforming it into
a jumble of dirt, rock, and devastation.
Vicious Destroyer
. It’s believed that the jespaith is
the strange incarnation of a fouled stretch of land. It’s
an embodiment of poison, hate, and maybe infernal
reagents given a semblance of life to despoil the earth
further. Once it has risen, a jespaith doesn’t end its
destruction until brave heroes put it down.
Cloying Poison
. While physically powerful, the
jespaith is also a creature of poison and decay. A sickly
haze clings to the creature in an effluvium of poison and
corrupted, biting insect corpses. A jespaith can spew a jet
of the congealed vapors as a concentrated acidic poison.
Other times, this horror engulfs creatures within its
body, gnashing them apart with its stone skeleton while
allowing its poison to work.
Undead Nature
. A jespaith doesn’t require air, food,
drink, or sleep.
