===
Corpse Walker
Medium undead, neutral evil
Armor Class 14 (natural armor)
Hit Points 82 (11d8 + 33)
Speed 30 ft.
str dex con int wis cha
	16	(+3)	13	(+1)	17	(+3)	6	(–2)	10	(+0)	6	(–2)
Saving Throws
Con +6, Wis +3
Damage Immunities necrotic, poison
Damage Resistances
bludgeoning, piercing, and
slashing from nonmagical attacks that aren’t silvered
Condition Immunities exhaustion, poisoned
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10
Languages understands languages it knew in life but
can’t speak
Challenge 6 (2,300 XP)
Proficiency Bonus +3
Cursed Gaze.
A humanoid that starts its turn within 30 ft.
of and able to see the corpse walker must succeed on a DC
14 Charisma saving throw, provided the corpse walker
isn’t incapacitated. On a failure, the humanoid is frightened
for 1 minute. A frightened target can repeat the saving
throw at the end of each of its turns, with disadvantage if not
averting its eyes from the corpse walker, ending the effect
on itself on a success. A creature failing two of these saving
throws becomes cursed with disturbing thoughts. Such a
creature can’t benefit from a short or long rest until the curse
is removed. On a successful save, the target is immune to
any corpse walker’s Cursed Gaze for the next 24 hours.
Unless surprised, a creature can avert its eyes to avoid
the saving throw. If the creature does so, it can’t see the
corpse walker until the start of its next turn. A creature
that looks at the corpse walker in the meantime must
immediately make the save.
Sunlight Hypersensitivity.
The corpse walker takes
20 radiant damage when it starts its turn in sunlight.
While in sunlight, it has disadvantage on attack rolls and
ability checks.
Undead Fortitude.
If damage reduces the corpse walker
to 0 hit points, it must make a Constitution saving throw
with a DC of 5 + the damage taken, unless the damage
is radiant or from a critical hit. On a success, the corpse
walker drops to 1 hit point instead.
actions
Multiattack.
The corpse walker makes two slam attacks.
Slam.
Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one
target.
Hit: 7 (1d6 + 4) bludgeoning damage and 5 (2d4)
necrotic damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed
on a DC 14 Constitution saving throw, or its hit point
maximum is reduced by an amount equal to the necrotic
damage taken, and the corpse walker regains hit points
equal to that amount. This reduction lasts until the target
finishes a long rest. The target dies if this effect reduces its
hit point maximum to 0. An evil humanoid slain this
way rises 24 hours later as a corpse walker.
