===
Pactbreaker
Large construct, chaotic good
Armor Class 18 (natural armor)
Hit Points 157 (15d10 + 75)
Speed 30 ft.
str dex con int wis cha
 20 (+5) 8 (–1) 20 (+5) 6 (–2) 16 (+3) 5 (–3)
Skills
Perception +7
Damage Immunities poison
Damage Resistances
bludgeoning, piercing, and
slashing from nonmagical attacks that aren’t adamantine
Condition Immunities charmed, exhaustion,
frightened, paralyzed, petrified, poisoned
Senses truesight 120 ft., passive Perception 17
Languages understands Celestial and Infernal but
can’t speak
Challenge 10 (5,900 XP)
Proficiency Bonus +4
Adjustable Form.
The pactbreaker can use its action
to change its appearance, although it always appears
to be a construct, or to end one effect altering its form.
Its weapon changes appearance in response to a foe’s
weaknesses—see Reactive Weapon.
Magic Weapons.
The pactbreaker’s weapon attacks
are magical.
Magic Resistance.
The pactbreaker has advantage on
saving throws against spells and other magical effects.
Pact Breaking.
When the pactbreaker deals damage
to a creature bound to a contract or pact with an evil entity,
that creature must succeed on a DC 15 Charisma saving
throw or be unable to use features, powers, and spells
associated with that agreement until the end of the
pactbreaker’s next turn. This inability includes using
or maintaining concentration on such features, powers,
and spells.
Pact Sense.
The pactbreaker can sense those who have
entered a pact with malevolent entities. It knows the
direction and distance of any humanoid that has forged
a fiendish or evil fey contract or warlock pact (with an
evil patron) within 1,000 feet. If the creature is moving,
the pactbreaker knows the direction of its movement.
Any effect that blocks divination magic blocks this trait.
actions
Multiattack.
The pactbreaker makes two attacks.
Reactive Weapon.
Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit,
reach 5 ft., one target.
Hit: 21 (3d10 + 5) bludgeoning
damage and 11 (2d10) psychic damage. The second and
subsequent times the weapon strikes the same target,
the damage changes if the target can be harmed more
by another damage option. Bludgeoning damage can
become piercing or slashing, and psychic damage can
become radiant or necrotic.
Eldritch Leash.
Ranged Spell Attack: +7 to hit, range 300 ft.,
one target.
Hit: 29 (4d12 + 3) force damage. If the target
is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving
throw, or it can’t have a flying speed greater than 0 feet for
1 minute. If flying, the creature falls if it fails the save by 5
or more. Otherwise, it safely descends at 60 feet per round
until it reaches the ground or the effect ends. A creature
that has a natural flying speed, rather than one provided
by an effect, can repeat the saving throw at the end of each
of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.
