151
G
rim
H
ollow
m
onster
G
rimoire
H
===
Hedron
Medium elemental, lawful neutral
Armor Class 17 (natural armor)
Hit Points 110 (13d8 + 52)
Speed 0 ft., fly 30 ft. (hover)
str dex con int wis cha
 11 (+0) 11 (+0) 19 (+4) 13 (+1) 13 (+1) 17 (+3)
Skills
Perception +4
Damage Immunities poison
Damage Resistances
psychic; bludgeoning, piercing,
and slashing from nonmagical attacks
Condition Immunities blinded, deafened, exhaustion,
paralyzed, petrified, poisoned, prone, unconscious
Senses truesight 60 ft., passive Perception 14
Languages understands all languages but can’t speak,
telepathy 120 ft.
Challenge 8 (3,900 XP)
Proficiency Bonus +3
Aura of Pure Order.
The hedron exudes a 30-foot sphere
of pure order, which influences randomness and makes the
area conform to a rigid ideal. The aura penetrates objects
and barriers, but a barrier more than 2 feet thick blocks it,
as does any barrier of force. Objects harmlessly become
perfectly geometric if they remain in the aura for 1 minute.
Difficult terrain in the area becomes normal terrain until
subjected to something that makes it difficult terrain again.
Objects removed from the aura before they transform revert
to normal.
A creature other than a hedron that enters the area
for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there takes
5 (2d4) force damage. While in the aura, a creature can’t
change shape or have advantage or disadvantage.
Immutable Form.
The hedron is immune to any spell
or effect that would alter its form.
actions
Multiattack.
The hedron uses telekinesis twice.
Telekinesis.
Melee Spell Attack
: +6 to hit, reach 60 ft., one target.
Hit
: 21 (6d6) force damage, although the hedron can choose to deal half or no damage. If the target is a
Large or smaller creature, it is grappled (escape DC 14).
Until this grapple ends, if the hedron wishes, the target
is restrained. The hedron can move a grappled creature
or held object up to 30 feet in any direction, provided the
target remains within the hedron’s reach. If the hedron
tries to move an object another creature wears or carries,
that creature can prevent the movement with a successful
DC 14 Strength saving throw. The hedron can hold
(grapple) up to two creatures or objects at a time. It can
also exert fine control while choosing to deal no damage,
such as manipulating a tool or opening a door.
