61
G
rim
H
ollow
m
onster
G
rimoire
C
===
Chapped Brute Abomination
Huge monstrosity, chaotic evil
Armor Class 16 (natural armor)
Hit Points 161 (14d12 + 70)
Speed 40 ft.
str dex con int wis cha
	23	(+6)	10	(+0)	20	(+5)	3	(–4)	10	(+0)	5	(–3)
Skills
Athletics +10
Damage Resistances
necrotic
Condition Immunities blinded, prone
Senses blindsight 90 ft. (blind beyond this radius),
passive Perception 10
Languages —
Challenge 9 (5,000 XP)
Proficiency Bonus +4
Adaptive Hide.
After taking damage, the chapped
brute abomination gains resistance to that type of
damage until it takes another type of damage.
Keen Hearing and Smell.
The chapped brute abom-
ination has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks
that rely on hearing or smell. While deafened and unable
to smell, the brute can’t use its blindsight.
Unstable Life.
At the start of the chapped brute abomi-
nation’s turn, roll 1d20. The abomination regains hit points
equal to any even result and loses hit points equal to any
odd result. The abomination can neither exceed its hit point
maximum with a gain nor fall below 1 hit point with a loss.
actions
Multiattack.
The chapped brute abomination makes
two tentacle attacks.
Tentacle.
Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 20 ft.,
one target.
Hit: 22 (3d10 + 6) bludgeoning damage. If
the target is Medium or smaller, it is grappled (escape
DC 18). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained,
and the brute can’t use the tentacle against another target.
The chapped brute abomination has four tentacles.
Engulf.
Each creature grappled by the chapped brute
abomination must succeed on a DC 18 Strength saving
throw or be pulled into the brute’s body. An engulfed
target is blinded, restrained, unable to breathe, and has
total cover from effects that originate outside the brute.
At the start of each of the brute’s turns, each engulfed
creature takes 14 (4d6) acid damage. The brute can hold
only one Large creature or up to four Medium or smaller
creatures inside it at a time.
An engulfed creature can try to escape by taking an
action to make its choice of a DC 18 Strength (Athletics)
or Dexterity (Acrobatics) check. On a success, the creature
escapes and uses 10 feet of movement to enter a space of
its choice within 5 feet of the brute.
If the brute dies, an engulfed creature is no longer
restrained by it and can escape from the corpse by using
10 feet of movement.
If a creature dies inside the brute, the brute doesn’t
roll for Unstable Life at the start of its next turn and
instead regains 20 hit points. The creature’s body breaks
up inside the brute, and the brute expels anything the
creature wore or carried.
===
Awakened Chapped Brute
Large monstrosity, neutral evil
Armor Class 14 (natural armor)
Hit Points 126 (12d10 + 60)
Speed 40 ft.
str dex con int wis cha
	20	(+5)	10	(+0)	20	(+5)	5	(–3)	10	(+0)	5	(–3)
Skills
Athletics +8
Damage Resistances
necrotic
Condition Immunities blinded
Senses blindsight 60 ft. (blind beyond this radius),
passive Perception 10
Languages understands one language but can’t speak
Challenge 7 (2,900 XP)
Proficiency Bonus +3
Keen Hearing and Smell.
The awakened chapped
brute has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that
rely on hearing or smell. While deafened and unable to
smell, the brute can’t use its blindsight.
Sure-Footed.
The awakened chapped brute has advantage
on Strength and Dexterity saving throws made against
effects that would knock it prone.
actions
Multiattack.
The awakened chapped brute makes
two tentacle attacks or one tentacle slam.
Tentacle.
Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 15 ft.,
one target.
Hit: 18 (3d8 + 5) bludgeoning damage. If the
target is Medium or smaller, it is grappled (escape DC
16). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained, and
the brute can’t use the tentacle against another target.
The awakened chapped brute has two tentacles.
Tentacle Slam.
The awakened chapped brute slams
one or two targets grappled by it into a solid object or each
other. Each target must make a DC 16 Strength saving throw.
If the saving throw fails, the target takes 18 (3d8 + 5)
bludgeoning damage and is stunned until the end of the
awakened chapped brute’s next turn. On a successful saving
throw, the target takes half the damage and isn’t stunned.
gms advice: you can use any chapped brute form as part
of an encounter. You can also build encounters in which
one chapped brute transforms into one or both of its larger
forms. To do so, treat each form as a separate monster.
Transformation can take up to 1 minute, allowing you to
stagger the encounters, but it can occur as quickly as you
need it to for your game.
