319
G
rim
H
ollow
m
onster
G
rimoire
S
===
Soman Vampire Noble
Medium undead, any alignment
Armor Class 16 (studded leather)
Hit Points 150 (20d8 + 60)
Speed 50 ft.
str dex con int wis cha
 16 (+3) 18 (+4) 17 (+3) 13 (+1) 14 (+2) 19 (+4)
Saving Throws
Con +7, Wis +6
Skills
Arcana +5, Deception +8, Intimidation +8,
Perception +6, Persuasion +8
Damage Vulnerabilities
radiant
Damage Resistances
necrotic, poison
Condition Immunities charmed, poisoned
Senses darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 16
Languages Soman and two other languages
Challenge 10 (5,900 XP)
Proficiency Bonus +4
Brute.
A melee weapon deals one extra die of its damage
when the vampire hits with it (included in the attacks).
Evasion.
If the vampire is subjected to an effect that
allows it to make a Dexterity saving throw to take only half
damage, the vampire instead takes no damage if it succeeds
on the saving throw, and only half damage if it fails.
Forbiddance.
The vampire can enter a residence only
with an invitation from one of that home’s residents. If
the vampire enters a house uninvited and involuntarily,
it takes 1d10 psychic damage at the end of each of its
turns while it remains there.
Guarded Mind.
The vampire’s emotions and thoughts
can’t be read.
Misty Step (Recharge 5–6).
As a bonus action, the
vampire disappears in shadowy mist and teleports up to
30 feet to an unoccupied space it can see.
Regeneration.
The vampire regains 10 hit points at
the start of its turn if it has at least 1 hit point and isn’t in
sunlight or running water. If the vampire takes radiant
damage, this trait doesn’t function at the start of the
vampire’s next turn.
Stake to the Heart.
If a piercing weapon made of
wood or silver is driven into the vampire’s heart while
the vampire is incapacitated, the vampire is paralyzed
until the stake is removed.
Sunlight Hypersensitivity.
The vampire has
disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks while
in direct sunlight. If the vampire starts its turn in direct
sunlight, it takes 1d10 radiant damage.
actions
Multiattack.
The vampire attacks twice with its rapier,
once with its dagger, and once with its bite.
Bite.
Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one
creature.
Hit: 9 (2d4 + 4) piercing damage, and the target
must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or
take 14 (4d6) necrotic damage. The vampire regains hit
points equal to the necrotic damage the target takes.
Rapier.
Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one
target.
Hit: 13 (2d8 + 4) piercing damage.
Dagger.
Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +8 to hit,
reach 5 ft. or range 20/60 ft., one target.
Hit: 9 (2d4 + 4)
piercing damage.
Charm (1/Day)
. The vampire targets one humanoid
it can see within 30 feet of it. If the target can see the
vampire, the target must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom
saving throw against this magic or be charmed by the
vampire. The charmed target regards the vampire as
a trusted friend to be heeded and protected. Although
the target isn’t under the vampire’s control, it takes the
vampire’s requests or actions in the most favorable way
it can, and it is a willing target for the vampire’s bite
attack, willingly failing the saving throw.
Each time the vampire or the vampire’s companions
do anything harmful to the target, it can repeat the saving
throw, ending the effect on itself on a success. Otherwise,
the effect lasts 24 hours or until the vampire is destroyed,
is on a different plane of existence than the target, or takes
a bonus action to end the effect.
Creatures of the Night (1/Day)
. Provided it isn’t
in direct sunlight, the vampire magically calls 5 (2d4)
swarms of bats or rats. While outdoors, the vampire can
call 5 (2d4) wolves instead. The called beasts arrive in 2
(1d4) rounds, acting as allies of the vampire and obeying
its spoken commands. The beasts remain for 1 hour, until
the vampire dies, or until the vampire dismisses them as
a bonus action.
reactions
Horrifying Revelation.
When a creature within
30 feet of the vampire harms it, the vampire reveals a
ghastly distortion of its true form to the attacker. The
target must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom saving throw
or become frightened of the vampire for 1 minute. A
creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each
of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a
target’s saving throw is successful or the effect ends for
it, it is immune to this vampire’s Horrifying Revelation
for 24 hours.
