===
Death Cap
Tiny undead, chaotic evil
Armor Class 13
Hit Points 50 (20d4)
Speed 10 ft.
str dex con int wis cha
	13	(+1)	16	(+3)	10	(+0)	10	(+0)	10	(+0)	18	(+4)
Saving Throws
Wis +2
Damage Immunities necrotic, poison
Condition Immunities charmed, exhaustion,
frightened, poisoned, prone
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10
Languages -
Challenge 3 (700 XP)
Proficiency Bonus +2
False Appearance.
While a death cap remains
motionless and isn’t possessing a creature, the cap is
indistinguishable from an ordinary object.
actions
Crush.
Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one
creature.
Hit: 3 (1d4 + 1) bludgeoning damage, and the
death cap attaches to the target. While attached to the
target, the death cap can attack no other creature except
the target but has advantage on its attack rolls. The death
cap’s speed also becomes 0, it can’t benefit from any
bonus to its speed, and it moves with the target.
A creature can use an action to remove an attached
death cap. The remover must succeed on a DC 15
Strength (Athletics) check. A death cap can detach itself
from the target by using 5 feet of movement.
Possession.
One creature the death cap is touching
must succeed on a DC 14 Charisma saving throw or
become possessed by the death cap. The death cap
attaches to the possessed target, if not attached already,
and that target loses control of its body. The death
cap controls the body without depriving the target of
awareness. While doing so, the death cap retains its
alignment, Intelligence, Wisdom, Charisma, saving
throw proficiency, immunities, and vision. It otherwise
uses the possessed target’s statistics, gaining access to
the target’s knowledge, class features, proficiencies, and
languages. The death cap can possess one target at a
time, and it can’t use its crush attack while possessing
the target.
Whenever the possessed target hits with a melee
weapon, the target deals one extra die of the weapon’s
damage. At the start of its turn, the death cap can grant
the possessed target advantage on melee attack rolls
until the start of its next turn. Attack rolls against the
possessed target (not the death cap) have advantage for
the same time.
A creature can detach the death cap only if the
possessed target is grappled, restrained, or incapacitated.
The attempt provokes an opportunity attack from
the possessed target. If the death cap is detached,
the possession ends.
At the end of every 24 hours after initiating the
possession, the death cap drains the possessed target
of one Hit Die. The target can then attempt another DC
14 Charisma saving throw, ending the possession on a
success. The possession also ends if the possessed target
drops to 0 hit points, the death cap ends the possession
as a bonus action, the death cap is turned, or an effect
forces the death cap to end the possession.
When the possession ends, the death cap falls to the
ground in an unoccupied space within 5 feet of the target.
The target is immune to this death cap’s Possession for
24 hours after succeeding on the saving throw or after the
possession ends.
Hit Dice drained during a death cap’s possession can
be regained only after the possession ends. If a possessed
target is drained of all its Hit Dice, it dies.
