===
Zabrielite Truthseeker
Large celestial, lawful neutral
Armor Class 16
Hit Points 147 (14d10 + 70)
Speed 30 ft., fly 80 ft.
str dex con int wis cha
 18 (+4) 23 (+6) 20 (+5) 19 (+4) 23 (+6) 22 (+6)
Saving throws
Dex +9, Wis +9, Cha +9
Skills
Insight +9, Investigation +7, Perception +9
Damage Resistances
bludgeoning, piercing, and
slashing damage from nonmagical weapons
Damage Immunities necrotic, poison, radiant
Condition Immunities charmed, exhaustion,
frightened, poisoned
Senses truesight 120 ft., passive Perception 19
Languages All, telepathy 120 ft.
Challenge 7 (2900 XP)
Proficiency Bonus +3
Inscrutable
. The Zabrielite truthseeker is immune
to any effect that would sense its emotions or read
its thoughts, as well as any divination spell that it
refuses. Wisdom (Insight) checks made to determine
the Zabrielite truthseeker’s intentions or sincerity have
disadvantage.
Magic Resistance
. The Zabrielite truthseeker has
advantage on saving throws against spells and other
magical effects.
actions
Multiattack
. The Zabrielite truthseeker can make two
attacks: one with its eye beams and one with its talons. Eye Beams
.
Ranged Spell Attack
: +9 to hit, range 120 ft., one target.
Hit
: 27 (5d10) radiant damage. This attack does not suffer disadvantage if the truthseeker is
adjacent to an enemy and it ignores all but total cover.
Talons
.
Melee Weapon Attack
: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.
Hit
22 (3d10 + 6) slashing damage.
Transfixing Gaze
. The Zabrielite truthseeker chooses
one creature within 60 feet that it can see and gazes upon
its soul. The target must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom
saving throw or become paralyzed. While the creature is
paralyzed, the Zabrielite truthseeker can read its mind
to learn the creature’s surface thoughts and gain insight
into the creature’s motivations, emotional state, and
major concerns. At the end of each of the creature’s turns
it may make another Wisdom saving throw. On a success
the effect ends.
The Zabrielite truthseeker must maintain concentration
as if concentrating on a spell for the duration of the effect
and the effect ends if it stops concentration. While using
its transfixing gaze the Zabrielite truthseeker cannot
attack with its eye beams.
