===
Blightworm
Tiny aberration, neutral evil
Armor Class 15 (natural armor)
Hit Points 40 (16d4)
Speed 40 ft.
str dex con int wis cha
) 2 (–4) 17 (+3) 10 (+0) 13 (+1) 12 (+1) 18 (+4)
Skills
Perception +5
Senses darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 15
Damage Resistances
bludgeoning, piercing, and
slashing from nonmagical attacks
Languages understands the languages of its original
host but can’t speak
Challenge 2 (450 XP)
Proficiency Bonus +4
Otherworldly Nimbleness.
The blightworm can
move through the space of any creature larger than it is.
Slippery.
The blightworm has advantage on ability
checks and saving throws made to escape a grapple.
Symbiotic Proficiency.
The blightworm has a
proficiency bonus equal to that of its original blightworm
ascendant host (usually +4).
actions
Bite.
Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.
Hit: 5 (1d4 + 3) piercing damage and the blightworm enters
the target’s space and attaches to the target, moving with
the target until detached. While attached to the target,
the blightworm can bite no other creature but has advantage
on attack rolls to bite. Another creature, including the target,
can use an action to detach the blightworm but must
succeed on a DC 15 Strength (Athletics) or Dexterity
(Acrobatics) check to do so. The blightworm can detach
as part of its movement and does so automatically if it
becomes incapacitated or dies.
If the blightworm hits a humanoid it’s attached to
with its bite, the humanoid must succeed on a DC 15
Constitution saving throw, or the blightworm burrows in.
While burrowed in, the blightworm has total cover from
effects that originate outside the humanoid and can’t be
detached. If it hits with its bite while burrowed in, it scores
a critical hit. If it rolls a 20 on its attack roll, it deals 16 (the
maximum of 2d4 + 4 plus another 1d4) piercing damage.
The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each
of the blightworm’s turns. On a success, the blightworm is
ejected into a space of its choice within 5 feet of the target.
A
lesser restoration
or
protection from evil and good
spell cast
on the target also expels the blightworm.
If the humanoid dies with a blightworm inside it, its
soul departs at the start of the blightworm’s next turn.
The blightworm’s original blightworm ascendant host
then reincarnates using the humanoid’s body, which
becomes the ascendant’s body. (The target’s body is,
in essence, destroyed, remade into another creature’s
body.) The arisen ascendent has half its hit points and
two levels of exhaustion.
