===
Dwarf Vampire (Adult)
Medium undead, any evil alignment
Armor Class 16 (natural armor)
Hit Points 161 (17d8 + 85)
Speed 25 ft., burrow 10 ft., climb 25 ft.
str dex con int wis cha
 18 (+4) 16 (+3) 20 (+5) 13 (+1) 14 (+2) 14 (+2)
Saving Throws
Dex +8, Wis +7
Skills
Athletics +9, History +6, Perception +7, Stealth +8
Damage Immunities poison
Damage Resistances
necrotic; bludgeoning, piercing,
and slashing from nonmagical attacks that aren’t silvered
Condition Immunities poisoned
Senses darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 17
Languages the languages known in life
Challenge 13 (10,000 XP)
Proficiency Bonus +5
Earth Glide.
The vampire can burrow through
nonmagical, unworked earth and any nonmagical stone.
While doing so, the vampire doesn’t disturb the material
it moves through.
Legendary Resistance (3/Day).
If the vampire fails a
saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead.
Regeneration.
The vampire regains 20 hit points at
the start of its turn if it has at least 1 hit point and isn’t in
sunlight. If the vampire takes radiant damage or damage
from a silvered weapon, this trait doesn’t function at the
start of the vampire’s next turn.
Spider Climb.
The vampire can climb difficult
surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without
needing to make an ability check.
Turn Resistance.
The vampire has advantage on
saving throws against any effect that turns undead.
Vampire Weaknesses.
The vampire has the
following flaws: Forbiddance.
The vampire can’t enter a residence
without an invitation from one of the occupants.
Silver to the Heart.
The vampire dies if a piercing
weapon made of silver is driven into its heart while it is
incapacitated in its resting place.
Sunlight Hypersensitivity.
The vampire takes 10 radiant
damage when it starts its turn in sunlight. While in sunlight,
it has disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks.
actions
Multiattack.
The vampire makes three attacks, only
one of which can be a bite.
Claws.
Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.
Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) slashing damage. If the target is a creature,
the vampire can grapple the target (escape DC 17).
Bite.
Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one
creature.
Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) piercing damage and 14 (4d6)
necrotic damage. The target’s hit point maximum is
reduced by an amount equal to the necrotic damage
taken, and the vampire regains hit points equal to that
amount. This reduction lasts until the target finishes a
long rest. The target dies if this effect reduces its hit point
maximum to 0. A humanoid slain in this way sinks into
nonmagical unworked earth. If buried in this or any
other way, the humanoid rises the following night as a
vampire spawn under this vampire’s control.
Beast Form.
If the vampire isn’t in sunlight, it
polymorphs into a Small or smaller beast, usually with
fangs and claws, or back into its true form. While in beast
form, the vampire can gain a fly or swim speed of 30 feet,
but its other statistics remain the same. If the new form
lacks claws, the vampire can make slam attacks that deal
the same amount of bludgeoning damage. Anything it
wears transforms with it, but nothing it is carrying does.
It reverts to its true form if it dies.
reactions
Earthen Escape.
When it drops to 0 hit points, the
vampire and whatever it’s wearing and carrying sinks
into nonmagical, unworked earth or any nonmagical
stone. The substance must be large enough to contain
the vampire’s body and must be within 50 feet of the
vampire, or this reaction fails to work. If the vampire
can’t meld with earth or stone, it dies.
Once within the earth or stone the vampire is paralyzed
until it regains at least 1 hit point. The vampire can only
hear what’s going on beyond the earth or stone it’s within
and makes Wisdom (Perception) checks to do so with
disadvantage.
If damage to the earth or stone or a change in its
shape makes it too small to accommodate the vampire,
the vampire dies if still at 0 hit points, and its body and
gear are expelled from the earth or stone. After spending
1 hour in the earth or stone with 0 hit points, the vampire
regains 1 hit point.
legendary actions
The vampire can take 3 legendary actions, choosing
from the options here. Only one legendary action option
can be used at a time and only at the end of another
creature’s turn. The vampire regains spent legendary
actions at the start of its turn.
Move.
The vampire moves up to its speed without
provoking opportunity attacks.
Claws.
The vampire attacks once with its claws.
