===
Halfling Vampire (Young)
Small undead, any evil alignment
Armor Class 17 (natural armor)
Hit Points 112 (15d6 + 60)
Speed 25 ft., climb 25 ft.
str dex con int wis cha
 15 (+2) 18 (+4) 18 (+4) 12 (+1) 13 (+1) 14 (+2)
Saving Throws
Dex +8, Wis +5
Skills
Acrobatics +8, Athletics +6, Perception +5, Stealth +8
Damage Resistances
necrotic, poison; bludgeoning,
piercing, and slashing from nonmagical attacks
Condition Immunities frightened
Senses darkvision 90 ft., passive Perception 15
Languages the languages known in life
Challenge 9 (5,000 XP)
Proficiency Bonus +4
Cunning Action.
The vampire can use a bonus action
to take the Dash, Disengage, or Hide action.
Nimble Stealth.
The vampire can move through the
space of any creature larger than it. Also, the vampire
can attempt to hide when obscured by a creature at least
one size larger than it.
Regeneration.
The vampire regains 15 hit points at
the start of its turn if it has at least 1 hit point and isn’t in
sunlight. If the vampire takes radiant damage, this trait
doesn’t function at the start of the vampire’s next turn.
Spider Climb.
The vampire can climb difficult
surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without
needing to make an ability check.
Vampire Weaknesses.
The vampire has the
following flaws: Forbiddance.
The vampire can’t enter a residence
without an invitation from one of the occupants.
Stake to the Heart.
The vampire dies if a piercing
weapon made of wood is driven into its heart while it is
incapacitated in its resting place.
Sunlight Hypersensitivity.
The vampire takes 15 radiant
damage when it starts its turn in sunlight. While in sunlight,
it has disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks.
actions
Multiattack.
The vampire makes three attacks, only
one of which can be a bite.
Claws.
Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.
Hit: 9 (2d4 + 4) slashing damage. If the target is a creature,
the vampire can grapple the target (escape DC 14).
Bite.
Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature.
Hit: 9 (2d4 + 4) piercing damage and 10 (3d6) necrotic
damage. The target’s hit point maximum is reduced by
an amount equal to the necrotic damage taken, and the
vampire regains hit points equal to that amount. This
reduction lasts until the target finishes a long rest. The
target dies if this effect reduces its hit point maximum to
0. A humanoid slain in this way rises the following night
as a vampire spawn under this vampire’s control.
Mist Form.
If the vampire isn’t in sunlight, it polymorphs
into a Small cloud of mist, or back into its true form.
Anything it wears or carries transforms with it. While in
mist form, the vampire can’t take any actions, speak, or
manipulate objects. It is weightless, has a flying speed
of 30 feet, can hover, and can enter a hostile creature’s
space and stop there. In addition, if air can pass through
a space, the mist can do so without squeezing, but it
can’t pass through water. It has advantage on Strength,
Dexterity, and Constitution saving throws. A vampire
in mist form is immune to nonmagical damage, except
damage from sunlight, and has resistance to damage
other than radiant. The vampire reverts to its true form
if it dies.
reactions
Innocent Eyes.
When a creature attacks or uses a
harmful effect directly targeting the vampire while the
vampire can see and is within 30 feet of that creature, the
vampire can force the creature to make a DC 14 Wisdom
saving throw. This reaction can’t protect the vampire
against area effects. Also, the target must be able to see
the vampire, and the target enjoys any protection it has
versus being charmed against this effect. On a failure,
the creature can’t attack the vampire and must choose
another target or effect, or lose that use of the attack,
spell, or effect. A creature can choose not to cast a spell
or use an ability instead of losing that use of it. If the
save succeeds for a creature, this vampire’s Innocent
Eyes reaction doesn’t work on that creature for 24 hours.
Misty Escape.
When it drops to 0 hit points outside
its resting place, the vampire transforms into its Mist
Form instead of falling unconscious. If the vampire
can’t transform, it dies.
While it has 0 hit points in mist form, the vampire
dies if it takes damage three times or radiant damage
once. It can’t willingly revert to its vampire form, and it
must reach its resting place within 2 hours or die. Once
in its resting place, it reverts to its vampire form. It is
then paralyzed until it regains at least 1 hit point. After
spending 1 hour in its resting place with 0 hit points, it
regains 1 hit point.
legendary actions
The vampire can take 2 legendary actions, choosing from
the options here. Only one legendary action option can be
used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s
turn. The vampire regains spent legendary actions at the
start of its turn.
Move.
The vampire moves up to its speed without
provoking opportunity attacks.
Claws.
The vampire attacks once with its claws.
