vampiric existence
When a sapient creature is afflicted with vampirism, it’s
akin to being reborn. They return to an infantile state
as the mind reels with the influx of new sensory input.
The body changes dramatically, and over time, the new
vampire grows into their new powers. They must learn
to control novel urges, and they might develop new
skills and abilities as they recapture—and, in some cases,
surpass—their former capacities and talents.
ancestry
Every vampire is different, although spawn display the
fewest differences. One’s ancestry grants them specific
abilities that others might not have, and a variety of traits
can be seen among them. Some are cleverer, some are
stronger, some are more dexterous, but all are dangerous. A
vampire’s terrifying hunger ravages all who fall victim to it.
needs
Vampires share some urges with the humanoids they
once were. Although vampires eat and drink, failing to
do so can’t kill them. Instead, lack of drink and food—
blood, flesh, and marrow—makes them lethargic and
brings out feral urges to hunt and feed. Unlike most
humanoids, however, vampires don’t need to breathe.
resting
Most vampires sleep during daylight hours. They do
so in a resting place that contains a portable object or
objects related to the vampire’s death or burial, such
as soil from their native land. Lack of rest can subject
a vampire to exhaustion. And when a vampire is near
death, their resting place becomes essential to recovery.
The portable nature of objects that allow the vampire
to prepare a resting place means the vampire can travel.
To do so, the vampire takes their essential objects along
and prepares a new resting place at the destination.
curing vampirism
A creature infected with vampirism can be cured, but
doing so isn’t easy. One constant exists in seeking a
cure—you can be cured only as a spawn, and only after
the vampire who made you dies. After a vampire is
destroyed, their spawn become stunned for moments.
When a vampire spawn is stunned due to their progenitor
being destroyed, a remove curse spell can begin the
process of ending the vampiric state. The spell must be
cast while the spawn is stunned due to the progenitor’s
destruction or the magic has no effect on the vampirism.
Even if successful, the former spawn then needs care and
recovery time, along with more magical treatment to
stave off and end the curse. Tales about curing vampires
rarely end well, but no two record the same methods
being used after the initial weakening of the curse.
vampire ancestries
The curse of vampirism can affect nearly any sapient
species of humanoid. When first contracted, the curse
manifests in a painful restructuring of a person’s body. An
individual’s original heritage influences the process and the
result of the macabre transformation. Therefore, no single
type of vampire exists. A dwarf that contracts vampirism
shares some qualities with a human vampire, but each
demonstrates a handful of traits unique to their ancestry.
Information regarding specific strains of vampires is pre-
sented later in this chapter, though a few exceptions follow.
Disembodied.
One might believe a vampire that can
slip the bonds of the material world and skulk through
the Ethereal Plane would make for an ideal predator.
But no records exist of disembodied falling victim to the
curse. Why they have immunity is anybody’s guess, and
rumors run the gamut from divine blessings to latent
enchantments from the catastrophe of Ulmyr’s Gate.
Lycanthropes.
Lycanthropy is also a curse, and many
sages swear that a were-creature is immune to the curse
of vampirism. Those sages are fools. The fzeg is a vile
cross between a werewolf and a vampire. Additionally,
members of a clan of werebears swear by the legend of
the Bloodlord. In this tale, a mighty werebear reveals their
vampirism by slaying all their kin, vampire and werebear,
