===
Hurrock
Medium monstrosity, neutral evil
Armor Class 15 (natural armor, shield arm)
Hit Points 60 (8d8 + 24)
Speed 25 ft., burrow 20 ft.
str dex con int wis cha
 16 (+3) 8 (–1) 17 (+3) 7 (–2) 12 (+1) 9 (–1)
Saving Throws
Con +5
Damage Resistances
poison; bludgeoning, piercing
and slashing damage from nonmagical attacks that aren’t
adamantine
Condition Immunities exhaustion, petrified
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 11
Languages one national language, Dwarvish
Challenge 3 (700 XP)
Proficiency Bonus +2
Harrowed Tunneler.
The hurrock can burrow through
solid rock at half its burrow speed and leaves a 6-foot-
diameter tunnel in its wake. The tunnel is difficult terrain.
Rubble Walker.
Difficult terrain composed of rock,
rubble, or similar debris doesn’t cost the hurrock
extra movement.
actions
Multiattack
. The hurrock makes one axe arm attack
and one beard attack.
Axe Arm.
Melee Weapon Attack
: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.
Hit
: 10 (2d6 + 3) slashing damage. Beard.
Melee Weapon Attack
: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.
Hit
: 6 (1d6 + 3) piercing damage. reactions
Parry.
The hurrock adds 2 to its AC against one melee
attack that would hit it. To do so, the hurrock must see
the attacker and have its shield arm free.
to nubs, and the creature can travel quickly on all four
limbs. Cursed rock makes up three-quarters of its body
mass, and grows larger. Where the hurrock’s metal-in-
fused beard once was, there is now a tangle of iron blades
and spikes bristling from its jaw. The rock comprising
most of its head now covers its eyes, obscuring its vision,
so the hurrock relies upon its tremorsense. In its final
form, the hurrock no longer sleeps or enters a trance and
can’t be rendered unconscious.
gm advice: Hurrocks lack a ranged attack, but their
burrow ability more than compensates. Since they
are mostly encountered deep underground in tight
passageways, hurrocks can simply burrow through solid
stone above, beneath, or around enemies until they are in
a good position to attack softer targets with melee attacks.
