377
C
hapter
2: V ampires
in one fell swoop. Werebears see this tale as a cautionary
one, respecting the myth while eradicating packs of
vampires at every opportunity.
Mixed Ancestries.
People of mixed ancestries, such as
half-elves and half-orcs, are rare. The curse of vampirism
rebuilds the victim’s body, and the inherited traits of
an individual war with the curse as it manifests. Very
few survive the experience, but those who do are some
of the strongest creatures of the night. They bring the
strengths of their heritage and, in some cases, few of the
weaknesses other vampires suffer.
Wechselkind.
A wechselkind is a construct, crafted by
fey to replace a human child. They are naturally resistant
to affliction The vampiric curse seems to be, in part, a
kind of infection, which might be why no wechselkind
vampires exist.
vampire age
The more time a vampire spends in the embrace of
the curse, the more power they gain. Vampires age in
categories, including newborn spawn, young vampires
who have outgrown their wilder spawn tendencies,
and adults who have matured in their vampirism and
gained considerable might. Adults that endure for
centuries become ancients, vampires at the pinnacle of
vampiric power.
Artificial or magical aging has no effect on a vampire’s
age category. If a curse ages a young vampire 50 years,
they remain a young vampire.
spawn (onsetto 10 years)
When first afflicted with vampirism, a spawn spends
their time in thrall to a master. This bond is inherently
strong. The master instructs the spawn in the ways of the
vampire pack, just as an adult wolf teaches whelps. It’s
rare for a vampire of this age to be found alone.
A vampire spawn needs the instruction. Although a
powerful creature, they lose their sense of self and lack
awareness of their full capabilities. A spawn retains their
previous intelligence but struggles to express complex
thoughts or concepts because of pain and the distraction
of new sensory input. These changes are excruciating,
and the hunger is almost unbearable. Spawn attack
recklessly to slake this horrid craving.
In time, the spawn grows and learns enough that they
gain more control.
young (10 yearsto 50 years)
A young vampire has regained a sense of self. They might
remain in the company of their master, but the relationship
has evolved. The young vampire has outgrown the need
for a teacher but can’t create spawn of their own.
Free of the pains and violent urges that plagued their
younger existence, young vampires are still emotional
creatures, prone to immediate and raw responses. They
share many similarities with children. Their loyalties are
fickle, and they coexist with a pack more for protection
than devotion.
Very few vampires survive this stage.
adult (50 yearsto 250 years)
An adult vampire has grown into their gifts. At this age,
a vampire’s supernatural power permeates their lair, and
they have all a legendary vampire’s speed and prowess.
Most can also take the form of a beast, such as a bat.
Vampires of this age have become cruel and capable.
They enjoy playing with their prey, and some attack
in beast form. Doing so confounds would-be monster
hunters, since victims often believe a monstrous beast
attacked them. Most adult vampires relish such ruses
and believe a little terror “spices the meal.”
Adult vampires can create spawn. At this age,
many vampires leave one pack to form another.
ancient (250 yearsandolder)
A vampire who reaches the venerable age of 250 years
or more is extremely rare. Such a vampire has significant
control over their form and faculties. They wield tremendous
power, and their corrupted nature triggers wicked desires.
An ancient vampire has progeny and allies of all sorts.
Vampires and other creatures of the night hunting with
and for them. They employ assassins, bodyguards, and
ne’er-do-well business agents to protect their interests.
Bards tell tales of ancient vampires stalking through
society’s upper echelons. Rumors spread about powerful
people being vampires, especially if the person has a
mixed reputation and seemingly refuses to age. If such
a creature existed, they’d have resources to prevent the
truth from spreading.
vampire lairs
A vampire chooses a comfortable, defensible location for their
lair, often a place they knew well during their humanoid
life. Vampire lairs usually gain a scary reputation, and a
vampire might have few servants to keep the lair up, so an
older vampire lair is usually in a state of disrepair.
lair actions
Adult and ancient vampires form a supernatural bond
with their lair, allowing them lair actions. On initiative
count 20 (losing initiative ties), such vampires can take
a lair action to cause one of the following effects. The
vampire can’t use the same effect two rounds in a row: •
A swarm forms from the insects in the area. The vampire
commands the swarm, which takes its turn just after
the vampire. The swarm of insects remains until the
vampire takes a different lair action, until the swarm is
dispersed, or until the vampire drops to 0 hit points.
•
Thorny vines or bloody tenatcles erupt from the ground
in a 30-foot radius centered on a point the vampire
chooses within 120 feet of the vampire. This area is
difficult terrain for creatures of the vampire’s choice.
When the impediments appear, each creature of the
vampire’s choice in the area must succeed on a DC 15
Strength saving throw or be grappled (escape DC 15)
and restrained while grappled in this way. The plants or
tentacles retreat into the ground when the vampire uses
another lair action or the vampire drops to 0 hit points.
