380
G
rim
H
ollow
m
onster
G
rimoire
===
Vampire Spawn
Medium undead, chaotic evil
Armor Class 15 (natural armor)
Hit Points 75 (10d8 + 30)
Speed 30 ft., climb 30 ft.
str dex con int wis cha
 16 (+3) 16 (+3) 16 (+3) 11 (+0) 10 (+0) 12 (+1)
Saving Throws
Dex +6, Wis +3
Skills
Athletics +6, Perception +3, Stealth +6
Damage Resistances
necrotic; bludgeoning, piercing,
and slashing from nonmagical attacks
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 13
Languages the languages known in life
Challenge 5 (1,800 XP)
Proficiency Bonus +3
Regeneration.
The vampire regains 10 hit points at
the start of its turn if it has at least 1 hit point and isn’t in
sunlight or running water. If the vampire takes radiant
damage, this trait doesn’t function at the start of the
vampire’s next turn.
Spider Climb.
The vampire can climb difficult
surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without
needing to make an ability check.
Vampire Weaknesses.
The vampire has the
following flaws: Forbiddance.
The vampire can’t enter a residence
without an invitation from one of the occupants.
Running Water.
The vampire takes 20 acid damage when
it ends its turn in running water at least the size of a stream.
Stake to the Heart.
The vampire dies if a piercing
weapon made of wood is driven into its heart while it is
incapacitated in its resting place.
Sunlight Hypersensitivity.
The vampire takes 20
radiant damage when it starts its turn in sunlight.
While in sunlight, it has disadvantage on attack rolls
and ability checks.
actions
Multiattack.
The vampire makes three attacks, only
one of which can be a bite.
Claws.
Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one
target.
Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) slashing damage. If the target is
a creature, the vampire can grapple the target (escape
DC 14).
Bite.
Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature.
Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) piercing damage and 7 (2d6) necrotic damage.
The target’s hit point maximum is reduced by an amount
equal to the necrotic damage taken, and the vampire regains
hit points equal to that amount. This reduction lasts until the
target finishes a long rest. The target dies if this effect reduces
its hit point maximum to 0.
location
A vampire pack can be found nearly anywhere. Many
prefer to lair in places where they can operate undis-
turbed, such as in abandoned buildings or deep inside
ruins. Others, especially as they age and grow into their
powers, find it advantageous to live closer to food sources,
so they dwell in places near or in settlements or along
major trade routes.
food
Vampires can survive on any blood or blood-laden
material, but they prefer that of humanoids and have
distinct tastes. They endeavor to satisfy that specific
hunger whenever possible.
A vampire needs one to two liters of blood, five to
six pounds of fresh meat, or one pound of marrow per
day. Consuming too little not only causes hunger but
increases their likelihood of falling into bestial rage.
Consuming too much can result in the vampire falling
into unconsciousness while their body digests the extra
nutrients. This slumber can last anywhere from a few
days to months or more. A vampire who survives this
state might find they’ve developed new powers.
Vampires sometimes recruit willing mortals as blood
suppliers. This practice is uncommon and hard to maintain.
Vampires fall prey to their destructive urges easily and
kill without meaning to. When freed, such willing
vampire prey are damaged for the rest of their lives,
plagued by nightmares and worse. Still, they swear they
entered the arrangement willingly, yet cannot explain
their motives further.
motivations
Early in their lifecycle, a vampire desires only to feed.
Their lives are chaotic and violent, their desires simple. As
they age, they refine their tastes and actions, channeling
their urges in new ways. They might take an interest in
long-term investments, such as cultivating a blood cult
or establishing a shipping or travel business in which the
occasional lost cargo isn’t met with much suspicion.
vampire ancestry
The ancestry of a humanoid can affect how vampirism
manifests. The following sections show how vampires
of specific species can gain unusual traits based on that
ancestry. Use them to build your own vampires or as
inspiration for vampires of other species that you create.
