370
G
rim
H
ollow
m
onster
G
rimoire
W
===
Wretched Driver
Medium undead, chaotic neutral
Armor Class 13
Hit Points 65 (10d8 + 20)
Speed 30 ft.
str dex con int wis cha
 14 (+2) 16 (+3) 14 (+2) 10 (+0) 12 (+1) 14 (+2)
Skills
Acrobatics +5, Athletics +4
Damage Immunities poison
Condition Immunities exhaustion, poisoned
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 11
Languages the languages it knew in life
Challenge 3 (700 XP)
Proficiency Bonus +2
Angry Driving.
The wretched driver can use a bonus
action to control a vehicle. When the driver does so, it
can drive recklessly, forcing other creatures on the same
vehicle to succeed on a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw or
fall prone.
actions
Multiattack.
The wretched driver makes two rapier
attacks. It can replace either attack with a cursed shout.
Rapier.
Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one
target.
Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) piercing damage and 5 (2d4)
necrotic damage.
Cursed Shout.
One creature of the wretched driver’s
choice within 30 feet of and able to hear the driver must
succeed on a DC 12 Charisma saving throw or take 10
(3d6) psychic damage and become frightened until the
start of the driver’s next turn.
wretched masterof ceremonies
Medium undead, chaotic neutral
Armor Class 14 (natural armor)
Hit Points 97 (15d8 + 30)
Speed 30 ft.
str dex con int wis cha
 11 (+0) 17 (+3) 14 (+2) 12 (+1) 15 (+2) 18 (+4)
Skills
Deception +7, Insight +5, Perception +5,
Persuasion +7
Damage Immunities poison
Condition Immunities exhaustion, poisoned
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 15
Languages the languages it knew in life
Challenge 5 (1,800 XP)
Proficiency Bonus +3
Innate Spellcasting.
The wretched master of
ceremonies’ innate spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell
save DC 15). It can innately cast the following spells,
requiring no material components: At will: disguise self
,
misty step
Jubilant Thralls (Recharges after a Short or
Long Rest).
Humanoids of the
wretched master of
ceremonies’ choice able to hear and within 30 feet of
the master must make a DC 15 Charisma saving throw
or become charmed. A creature fighting the master has
advantage on this saving throw. A charmed target is
incapacitated, has a speed of 0, and has disadvantage
on Wisdom (Perception) checks made to perceive any
creature other than the master for 1 minute, or until the
target takes damage or can no longer hear the master.
The effect ends if the master is incapacitated or can no
longer speak. Those who remain charmed for 1 minute
are no longer incapacitated and return to their normal
speed. However, they remain charmed and regard the
master as someone to be heeded and protected, taking
the master’s requests and actions in the most favorable
way possible. Charmed targets protect the master and
interfere with those trying to harm the master, but they
take great risks only if such bravery or foolishness is part
of their normal nature.
Each time anything harmful happens to a target, it can
repeat the saving throw, ending the effect on itself on
a success. Otherwise, the effect lasts 1 hour or until the
master is destroyed, is on a different plane of existence
than the target, or takes a bonus action to end the effect
on one or more targets.
Turning Defiance.
The wretched master of ceremonies
and any undead within 30 feet of it have advantage on
saving throws against effects that turn undead.
actions
Multiattack.
The wretched master of ceremonies
makes two whip attacks. It can replace either attack with
macabre direction.
Whip.
Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 10 ft., one
target.
Hit: 5 (1d4 + 3) slashing damage and 10 (3d6)
psychic damage. If the target is a creature, the wretched
master of ceremonies moves it up to 10 feet to another
unoccupied space within the master’s reach.
Macabre Direction.
One creature of the wretched
master of ceremonies’ choice within 30 feet of and able to
hear the master must succeed on a DC 15 Charisma saving
throw or become charmed until the start of the master’s
next turn. The master can use the target’s reaction to
force it to make one weapon attack or cast one cantrip it
knows at a target of the master’s choice.
