===
Shifting Hulk
Large aberration, any alignment
Armor Class 16 (natural armor)
Hit Points 168 (16d10 + 80)
Speed 30 ft.
str dex con int wis cha
	20	(+5)	10	(+0)	20	(+5)	9	(–1)	11	(+0)	6	(−2)
Skills
Perception +4
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 14
Languages understands one language but can’t speak
Challenge 9 (5,000 XP)
Proficiency Bonus +4
Aberrant Wound.
If a creature other than an
undead or a construct takes damage from the shifting
hulk’s attacks, the creature must succeed on a DC 17
Constitution saving throw or lose 5 (2d4) hit points at the
start of each of its turns due to an aberrant wound. This
damage is cumulative. A creature can take an action to
staunch the wound, ending this effect with a successful
DC 15 Wisdom (Medicine) check. The wound also closes
if the target receives magical healing.
Vicious Critical.
When the shifting hulk scores a
critical hit with an attack, it can roll the attack’s
damage dice three times instead of twice.
Fast Healing.
While at half its hit points or fewer, the
shifting hulk regains 10 hit points at the start of each of
its turns. This trait doesn’t function while the hulk has
0 hit points.
Shapechanger.
The shifting hulk can use an action or
a bonus action to polymorph into a form that resembles
its Small or Medium humanoid appearance before
it became a horror. Its statistics are the same in each
form. Any equipment it is wearing or carrying isn’t
transformed. It reverts to its true Large form if it dies.
actions
Multiattack.
The shifting hulk makes two attacks and
uses frightening attacks.
Claw.
Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.
Hit: 19 (4d6 + 5) slashing damage and Aberrant Wound.
Spine.
Ranged Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, range 30/60 ft.,
one target.
Hit: 18 (3d8 + 5) piercing damage and
Aberrant Wound.
Frightening Attacks.
Each creature of the shifting
hulk’s choice within 30 feet of the hulk and aware of it
must succeed on a DC 12 Wisdom saving throw or be-
come frightened for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the
saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the
effect on itself on a success. If a creature’s saving throw is
successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune
to the hulk’s frightening attacks for the next 24 hours or
until it scores a critical hit, whichever comes first.
