===
Laneshi Vampire (Adult)
Medium undead, any evil alignment
Armor Class 17 (natural armor)
Hit Points 144 (17d8 + 68)
Speed 30 ft., climb 30 ft., swim 30 ft.
str dex con int wis cha
 18 (+4) 18 (+4) 18 (+4) 13 (+1) 14 (+2) 14 (+2)
Saving Throws
Dex +9, Wis +7
Skills
Athletics +9, Perception +7, Stealth +9
Damage Resistances
necrotic, poison; radiant from
holy water; bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing from
nonmagical attacks
Senses darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 17
Languages the languages known in life
Challenge 13 (10,000 XP)
Proficiency Bonus +5
Legendary Resistance (3/Day).
If the vampire fails a
saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead.
Regeneration.
The vampire regains 20 hit points at
the start of its turn if it has at least 1 hit point and isn’t in
sunlight. If the vampire takes radiant damage, this trait
doesn’t function at the start of the vampire’s next turn.
Skirmisher.
The vampire can use a bonus action to
take the Disengage action.
Speak with Beasts.
The vampire can communicate
with aquatic beasts and understand their communication.
Spider Climb.
The vampire can climb difficult
surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without
needing to make an ability check.
Vampire Weaknesses.
The vampire has the
following flaws: Forbiddance.
The vampire can’t enter a residence
without an invitation from one of the occupants.
Stake to the Heart.
The vampire dies if a piercing
weapon made of wood is driven into its heart while it is
incapacitated in its resting place.
Sunlight Hypersensitivity.
The vampire takes 10 radiant
damage when it starts its turn in sunlight. While in sunlight,
it has disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks.
Water Reliance.
After 4 hours without immersion in
water, the vampire takes 10 (3d6) acid damage at the end
of each hour, starting with the fourth. It can regain hit
points lost due to this trait only after being immersed in
water or biting and dealing necrotic damage to a target.
Regaining hit points from biting a target counts as being
immersed in water for the vampire.
actions
Multiattack.
The vampire makes three attacks, only
one of which can be a bite.
Claws.
Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.
Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) slashing damage. If the target is a creature,
the vampire can grapple the target (escape DC 17).
Bite.
Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one
creature.
Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) piercing damage and 14 (4d6)
necrotic damage. The target’s hit point maximum is reduced
by an amount equal to the necrotic damage taken, and
the vampire regains hit points equal to that amount.
This reduction lasts until the target finishes a long rest,
having had at least twice as much water to drink for the
day as normal. The target dies if this effect reduces its hit
point maximum to 0. A humanoid slain in this way and
then buried rises the following night as a vampire spawn
under this vampire’s control.
Beast Form.
If the vampire isn’t in sunlight, it
polymorphs into a Small or smaller beast, usually with
fangs and claws; a Medium or smaller beast with a swim
speed, usually a shark; or back into its true form. While
in beast form, the vampire can gain a fly speed 30 feet,
but its other statistics remain the same. If the new form
lacks claws, the vampire can make slam attacks that deal
the same amount of bludgeoning damage. Anything it is
wearing is transforms with it, but nothing it is carrying
does. It reverts to its true form if it dies.
Mist Form.
If the vampire isn’t in sunlight, it polymorphs
into a Medium cloud of mist, or back into its true form.
Anything it wears or carries transforms with it. While
in mist form, the vampire can’t take any actions, speak,
or manipulate objects. It is weightless, has a flying
and swim speed of 30 feet, can hover, and can enter a
hostile creature’s space and stop there. In addition, if
air or water can pass through a space, the mist can do
so without squeezing, but it can’t pass through liquids
other than water. It has advantage on Strength, Dexterity,
and Constitution saving throws. A vampire in mist form
is immune to nonmagical damage, except damage from
sunlight, and has resistance to damage other than radiant,
unless that radiant damage is from holy water. The vampire
reverts to its true form if it dies.
reactions
Misty Escape.
When it drops to 0 hit points outside
its resting place, the vampire transforms into its Mist
Form instead of falling unconscious. If the vampire can’t
transform, it dies.
While it has 0 hit points in mist form, the vampire dies if
it takes damage three times or radiant damage once. It can’t
willingly revert to its vampire form, and it must reach its
resting place within 2 hours or die. Once in its resting place,
it reverts to its vampire form. It is then paralyzed until it
regains at least 1 hit point. After spending 1 hour in its
resting place with 0 hit points, it regains 1 hit point.
legendary actions
The vampire can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from
the options here. Only one legendary action option can
be used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s
turn. The vampire regains spent legendary actions at the
start of its turn.
Move.
The vampire moves up to its speed without
provoking opportunity attacks.
Claws.
The vampire attacks once with its claws.
