336
G
rim
H
ollow
m
onster
G
rimoire
T
===
Tar Juggernaut
Huge elemental, chaotic evil
Armor Class 15 (natural armor)
Hit Points 230 (20d12 + 100)
Speed 40 ft.
str dex con int wis cha
 23 (+6) 9 (–1) 20 (+5) 5 (–3) 10 (+0) 5 (–3)
Damage Immunities poison
Damage Resistances
bludgeoning, piercing, and
slashing from nonmagical attacks
Condition Immunities exhaustion, paralyzed,
petrified, poisoned, prone, unconscious
Senses darkvision 60 ft., tremorsense 60 ft., passive Perception 10
Languages —
Challenge 12 (8,400 XP)
Proficiency Bonus +4
Amorphous.
The tar juggernaut can move through a
space as narrow as 1 inch wide without squeezing.
Engulfing Charge.
If the tar juggernaut moves at least
20 feet straight toward a creature and then hits it with a
slam attack on the same turn, that target must succeed
on a DC 18 Strength saving throw or fall prone. If the
target is prone and a Medium or smaller creature, the
juggernaut can use Engulf against it as a bonus action.
Kindle.
When a tar juggernaut takes fire damage,
it ignites. The juggernaut’s slam attacks then adhere
flaming pitch to foes, dealing an extra 11 (2d10) fire
damage and igniting them, too. In either case, until an
ignited creature takes an action to douse the fire, the
creature takes 11 (2d10) fire damage at the start of each
of its turns.
Siege Monster.
The tar juggernaut deals double
damage to objects and structures.
actions
Multiattack.
The tar juggernaut makes three slam
attacks. It can use engulf in place of any attack.
Slam.
Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 15 ft., one
target.
Hit: 22 (3d10 + 6) bludgeoning damage. If the target
is a Medium or smaller creature, it is grappled (escape DC
18). Until this grapple ends, the target is restrained. The
tar creep can grapple up to two creatures at a time.
Engulf.
One Medium or smaller creature grappled by or
prone within 5 feet of the tar juggernaut must succeed on
a DC 18 Strength saving throw or be pulled into the jug-
gernaut’s body. An engulfed target is blinded, restrained,
unable to breathe, and has total cover from effects that
originate outside the juggernaut. At the start of each of
the juggernaut’s turns, the engulfed creature takes 22
(4d10) bludgeoning damage and the same fire damage the
juggernaut takes from Kindle, if any. The juggernaut can
have up to one large or two medium or smaller creatures
engulfed at a time.
An engulfed creature can try to escape by taking an
action to make its choice of a DC 18 Strength (Athletics)
or Dexterity (Acrobatics) check. On a success, the creature
escapes and uses 5 feet of movement to enter a space of its
choice within 5 feet of the juggernaut.
If the juggernaut dies, an engulfed creature is no
longer restrained by it and can escape from the corpse by
using 10 feet of movement.
If a creature dies while engulfed by the juggernaut,
the creature’s body dissolves inside the elemental. The
juggernaut expels anything the creature wore or carried.
Tar Juggernaut.
Tar creeps grow as they absorb
organic material. They can become massive. In such
a form, the juggernaut, fearing nothing, gives up all
subtlety. It rolls over foes, killing indiscriminately and
without remorse.
Elemental Nature.
A tar creep doesn’t require air,
food, drink, or sleep.
