===
Marra
Medium fiend (shapechanger), neutral evil
Armor Class 15 (natural armor)
Hit Points 75 (10d8 + 30)
Speed 40 ft.
str dex con int wis cha
 14 (+2) 15 (+2) 16 (+3) 11 (+0) 15 (+2) 16 (+3)
Skills
Animal Handling +5, Deception +6, Insight +5,
Stealth +5
Damage Resistances
psychic; bludgeoning, piercing,
and slashing from nonmagical attacks that aren’t silvered
Condition Immunities frightened
Senses darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 12
Languages one national language, Abyssal, Infernal,
telepathy 60 ft.
Challenge 5 (1,800 XP)
Proficiency Bonus +3
Innate Spellcasting.
The marra’s innate spellcasting
ability is Charisma (spell save DC 14). It can innately cast
the following spells, requiring no components: At will: animal friendship
,
phantasmal force
,
sleep
1/day: dream
,
phantasmal killer
Magic Resistance.
The marra has advantage on
saving throws against spells and other magical effects.
Shapechanger.
The marra can use its action to
polymorph into a moth or back to its true form. While
in moth form, the marra is Tiny, has a speed of 5 feet
and a fly speed of 40 feet, and can’t speak, but its other
statistics are unchanged. Anything the marra is wearing
or carrying transforms with it. It reverts to its true form
if it dies.
actions
Multiattack.
The marra makes two attacks with its
claws. It can use crushing presence in place of one of
these attacks.
Claws.
Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one
target.
Hit: 9 (2d6 + 2) slashing damage. If the target is
a creature, it must succeed on a DC 13 Strength saving
throw or fall prone.
Crushing Presence.
Melee Spell Attack: +5 to hit,
reach 5 ft., one prone creature.
Hit: 13 (3d6 + 3) psychic
damage, the marra enters the target’s space and sits on
its chest, the target is grappled (escape DC 14), and the
target must make a DC 14 Constitution saving throw. If
the saving throw fails by 5 or more, the creature is para-
lyzed while grappled by the marra. Otherwise, a creature
that fails the save is restrained and can’t stand up while
grappled by the marra. If still restrained at the end of
its next turn, the creature must repeat the saving throw,
becoming paralyzed on a failure. Each time the creature
ends its turn grappled by the marra, the marra can deal
the creature 13 (3d6 + 3) psychic damage. The marra can
grapple only one creature at a time.
