===
Vooran
Tiny fey, chaotic neutral
Armor Class 13
Hit Points 2 (1d4)
Speed 0 ft., fly 40 ft. (hover)
str dex con int wis cha
 5 (-3) 16 (+3) 10 (+0) 8 (–1) 12 (+1) 11 (+0)
Skills
Perception +1, Stealth +5
Damage Resistances
acid, fire, lightning, thunder; bludg-
eoning, piercing, and slashing from nonmagical attacks
Damage Immunities cold, necrotic, poison
Condition Immunities charmed, exhaustion,
frightened, grappled, paralyzed, petrified, poisoned,
prone, restrained
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 11
Languages understands Sylvan but can’t speak
Challenge 1/8 (25 XP)
Proficiency Bonus +2
Ethereal Sight
. The vooran can see 60 feet into the
Ethereal Plane when on other planes, and vice versa.
Etherealness
. The vooran lives entirely on the Ethereal
Plane and can only enter other planes by possessing an
animal. It is not visible outside of the Ethereal Plane.
Incorporeal Movement
. The vooran can move
through other creatures and objects as if they were
difficult terrain. It takes 5 (1d10) force damage if it ends
its turn inside an object.
Familiar
. A vooran can connect with another creature
to serve as a familiar, forming a telepathic bond with its
willing master. While the two are bonded, the master can
sense what the vooran senses if they are within 1 mile of
each other. When bonded, the master can see the vooran
as a ghostly form.
actions
Animal Possession (1/Day)
. One beast of CR 1/8
or less that the vooran can see within 5 feet of it must
succeed on a DC 12 Charisma saving throw or be pos-
sessed by the vooran. The vooran disappears, and the
target is incapacitated and loses control of its body. The
vooran now controls the body but doesn’t deprive the
target of awareness. The vooran can’t be targeted by any
attack, spell, or other effect, and it retains its alignment,
Intelligence, Wisdom, Charisma, and immunity to being
charmed and frightened. It otherwise uses the possessed
target’s statistics, but doesn’t gain access to the target’s
knowledge, mental features, or proficiencies.
The possession lasts until the body drops to 0 hit
points, the vooran ends it as a bonus action, 1 hour
passes, or the vooran is forced out by an effect. When
the possession ends, the vooran is forced back into the
Ethereal Plane. The target is immune to this vooran’s
Animal Possession for 24 hours after succeeding on the
saving throw or after the possession ends. If an animal
is killed while the vooran possesses it, the vooran
must succeed on a DC 10 Charisma saving throw or it is
permanently destroyed instead of being forced into the
Ethereal Plane.
