===
Avarice Seraph
Large celestial, neutral evil
Armor Class 17 (natural armor)
Hit Points 199 (19d10 + 95)
Speed 40 ft., fly 120 ft.
str dex con int wis cha
	20	(+5)	20	(+5)	20	(+5)	14	(+2)	17	(+3)	20	(+5)
Saving Throws
Con +10, Wis +8, Cha +10
Skills
Deception +10, Insight +8, Perception +8
Damage Resistances
radiant; bludgeoning, piercing,
and slashing from nonmagical attacks
Condition Immunities charmed, exhaustion, frightened
Senses truesight 120 ft., passive Perception 18
Languages all, telepathy 120 ft.
Challenge 14 (11,500 XP)
Proficiency Bonus +5
Innate Spellcasting.
The seraph’s spellcasting ability
is Charisma (spell save DC 18). The seraph can innately
cast the following spells, using only verbal components: At will: detect evil and good
,
detect magic
,
invisibility
(self
only),
light
,
minor illusion
,
thaumaturgy
3/day each: identify
,
suggestion
1/day: zone of truth
Magic Resistance.
The seraph has advantage on
saving throws against spells and other magical effects.
Seraphic Weapons.
The seraph’s weapon attacks are
magical. When the seraph hits with any weapon, the
weapon deals an extra 4d8 radiant damage (included in
the attack).
actions
Multiattack.
The seraph makes three attacks.
Scimitar.
Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one
target.
Hit
: 12 (2d6 + 5) slashing damage, or 8 (1d6 + 5) slashing damage in Small or Medium form, and 18 (4d8)
radiant damage.
Change Shape.
The seraph magically polymorphs into
a Small or Medium humanoid, into a Large giant, or back
into its true form. Other than its size, its statistics are the
same in each form. It’s clothing and scimitars change size
to match its new form. If the seraph dies, it reverts to its
true form, and its equipment to its normal size.
Voice of Avarice.
The seraph presents objects of
desire, which can be illusions the seraph creates, to
creatures of its choice. If those creatures are within
60 feet of the seraph, able to see it and the desirable
objects, and able to hear the seraph, the creatures must
make a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw or become charmed
by the seraph until the seraph is incapacitated or fails to
use a bonus action on its turn to continue to present and
speak about the desirable objects.
While charmed in this way, a target can take no reactions
and can use its action only to Dash. If the charmed target
is more than 5 feet from the seraph, the target must move
as far as it can toward the seraph, trying to come within
5 feet. The target avoids obvious danger, including
opportunity attacks. If the target can’t avoid such danger,
the target can repeat the saving throw before entering
the dangerous area. While an affected creature is within
5 feet of the seraph, the creature can’t take reactions and
spends its turns staring at the desirable objects.
The target also repeats the saving throw if the target
is subjected to a harmful effect, if the target can’t see or
hear the seraph, and at the end of each of the target’s
turns. If a creature’s saving throw is successful, the effect
ends for it. A target that successfully saves is immune to
the Voice of Avarice of this seraph or any lesser seraph
for the next 24 hours.
