29
G
rim
H
ollow
m
onster
G
rimoire
B
===
Forgeblight
Large elemental, chaotic evil
Armor Class 14
Hit Points 119 (14d10 + 42)
Speed 50 ft.
str dex con int wis cha
	12	(+1)	18	(+4)	16	(+3)	6	(–2)	10	(+0)	6	(–2)
Damage Immunities fire, poison
Damage Resistances
bludgeoning, piercing, and
slashing from nonmagical attacks
Condition Immunities exhaustion, grappled, paralyz-
ed, petrified, poisoned, prone, restrained, unconscious
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10
Languages Ignan
Challenge 8 (3,900 XP)
Proficiency Bonus +3
Blight.
Any creature that touches the forgeblight or
hits it with a melee attack while within 5 feet of it must
succeed on a DC 14 Constitution saving throw or become
poisoned until the end of that creature’s next turn.
Cinder Form.
The forgeblight can move through a
space as narrow as 1 inch wide without squeezing.
A creature that touches the forgeblight or hits it with
a melee attack while within 5 feet of it takes 4 (1d8)
fire damage. Also, the forgeblight can enter a hostile
creature’s space and stop there. The first time it enters a
creature’s space on a turn, that creature takes 4 (1d8)
fire damage and is subjected to Blight.
Illumination.
The forgeblight sheds bright light in a
10-foot radius and dim light for an additional 10 feet.
Siege Monster.
The forgeblight deals double damage
to objects and structures.
Water Susceptibility.
For every 5 feet the forge-
blight moves in water, or for every gallon of water
splashed on it, it takes 1 cold damage.
Weapon Blight.
Any nonmagical weapon that strikes
the forgeblight partially burns away. After dealing
damage, the weapon takes a permanent and cumulative
–1 penalty to damage rolls. If the penalty reaches –5, the
weapon is destroyed. Nonmagical ammunition that hits
the forgeblight deals damage and is then destroyed.
actions
Multiattack.
The forgeblight makes two attacks.
Slam.
Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one
target.
Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) bludgeoning damage, 4 (1d8)
fire damage, and Blight. A creature wearing nonmagical
armor or a shield must succeed on a DC 14 Dexterity
saving throw, or the armor or shield (target’s choice)
partially burns away. The creature takes another 4 (1d8)
fire damage, armor takes a permanent and cumulative −1
penalty to the AC it offers, or the shield takes a similar
penalty to its bonus to AC. Armor reduced to an AC of
10 or a shield that drops to a +0 bonus is destroyed.
Cinder Burst.
The forgeblight hurls a ball of cinders at
a point it can see within 60 feet of it. Each creature within
a 10-foot-radius sphere centered on that point must make
a DC 14 Constitution saving throw. The sphere goes
around corners. On a failed save, a creature takes 7 (2d6)
fire damage, takes 7 (2d6) poison damage, and becomes
poisoned until the end of its next turn. While poisoned in
this way, a creature can’t benefit from being invisible.
