===
Incorporeal Cauchemange
Medium aberration, neutral evil
Armor Class 13
Hit Points 77 (14d8 + 14)
Speed 0 ft., fly 40 ft. (hover)
str dex con int wis cha
	6	(–2)	16	(+3)	12	(+1)	13	(+1)	15	(+2)	17	(+3)
Skills
Intimidation+6, Perception+5
Damage Immunities poison
Damage Resistances
acid, cold, fire, thunder; bludg-
eoning, piercing, and slashing from nonmagical attacks
Condition Immunities charmed, deafened,
frightened, grappled, paralyzed, petrified, poisoned,
prone, restrained
Senses darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 15
Languages the languages of its host, telepathy 60 ft.
Challenge 5 (1,800 XP)
Proficiency Bonus +3
Happiness Susceptibility.
If a creature within 30 feet
of the incorporeal cauchemange uses an action to make
a DC 14 Charisma (Performance) check and succeeds,
creating a presentation that inspires happiness or hope,
the cauchemange has disadvantage on attack rolls until
the end of the performing creature’s next turn.
Implant Larva.
If a humanoid dies due to damage the
incorporeal cauchemange deals, a cauchemange larva
emerges from the corpse 8 hours later.
Incorporeal Movement
. The cauchemange can move
through other creatures and objects as if they were
difficult terrain. It takes 5 (1d10) force damage if it ends
its turn inside an object.
Nightmare Aura.
Each creature of the incorporeal
cauchemange’s choice that starts its turn within 60 feet
of the cauchemange must succeed on a DC 14 Wisdom
saving throw or sense the cauchemange as something
to be feared, becoming frightened until the start of the
creature’s next turn. On a successful saving throw,
the creature is immune to the Nightmare Aura of all
cauchemanges for 1 hour.
Psychic Teleport (Recharge 4–6).
As its movement,
the cauchemange can teleport to an unoccupied space
within 40 ft. of it, provided that the space is within 10 ft.
of a creature with an Intelligence score of 3 or higher.
The cauchemange doesn’t need to see the destination.
Thought Location.
The incorporeal cauchemange can
detect creatures within 60 feet that have an Intelligence
of 2 or higher, provided they aren’t constructs or undead.
Effects that prevent divination from working on a creature
thwart this sense. This sense penetrates barriers, but 2 ft.
of rock, 2 inches of any metal other than lead, or a thin
sheet of lead blocks it. The cauchemange can’t be surprised
by a creature it can sense.
actions
Touch.
Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one
target.
Hit: 16 (3d8 + 3) psychic damage. The target
must succeed on a DC 14 Charisma saving throw or its
hit point maximum is reduced by an amount equal to
the damage taken. This reduction lasts until the target
finishes a long rest. The target dies if this effect reduces
its hit point maximum to 0.
Killing Nightmare (Recharges after a Short or
Long Rest).
The incorporeal cauchemange releases a
telepathic wave of amplified horror. Each frightened
creature of the cauchemange’s choice within 30 feet of
the cauchemange must make a DC 14 Charisma saving
throw. On a failure by 5 or more, a creature drops to 0 hit
points. If the save fails, the creature takes 25 (4d10 + 3)
psychic damage.
===
Cauchemange Larva
Tiny aberration, neutral evil
Armor Class 13
Hit Points 10 (4d4)
Speed 20 ft.
str dex con int wis cha
	2	(–4)	16	(+3)	10	(+0)	3	(–4)	7	(–2)	3	(–4)
Skills
Stealth +5
Damage Resistances
poison, psychic
Senses blindsight 30 ft. (blind beyond this radius),
passive Perception 8
Languages —
Challenge 1/4 (50 XP)
Proficiency Bonus +2
Magic Resistance.
A cauchemange larva has
advantage on saving throws against spells and other
magical effects.
actions
Bite.
Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft, one target.
Hit: 2 (1d4) piercing damage. If the cauchemange larva
scores a critical hit against a creature not infected by
another cauchemange larva, the larva burrows into the
target. Once inside a target, the larva is a disease. For
seven days, each time the host finishes a long rest, the
host must make a DC 10 Wisdom saving throw.
On a failure, the host gains no benefit from
that rest. After seven days, the cauchemange
erupts from its host’s body as an adult
cauchemange that is either corporeal
or incorporeal. This exit deals the host
20 (4d8 + 2) slashing damage.
