270
G
rim
H
ollow
m
onster
G
rimoire
P
===
Puck
Tiny fey, neutral evil
Armor Class 15
Hit Points 14 (4d4 + 4)
Speed 10 ft., fly 30 ft.
str dex con int wis cha
 3 (–4) 20 (+5) 12 (+1) 12 (+1) 13 (+1) 17 (+3)
Skills
Deception +5, Perception+3, Stealth +7
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 13
Languages Sylvan, telepathy 120 ft. (plants only)
Challenge 1 (200 XP)
Proficiency Bonus +2
Fey Evasion.
If the puck is subjected to an effect
that allows it to make a saving throw to take only half
damage, the puck instead takes no damage if it succeeds
on the saving throw, and only half damage if it fails.
Magic Resistance.
The puck has advantage on saving
throws against spells and other magical effects.
Innate Spellcasting.
The puck’s innate spellcasting
ability is Charisma (spell save DC 13). It can innately
cast the following spells, requiring only puck’s dust as
a component: At will: dancing lights
,
druidcraft, entangle
3/day: phantasmal force
1/day each: bestow curse, charm monster
(plant creatures only),
detect evil and good
,
detect thoughts
,
dispel magic
,
polymorph
Plant Bond.
Given 8 hours to be within 20 feet of a
Huge or smaller plant, the puck can use puck’s dust to
form a bond with that plant. The target must have no
Intelligence score and gains an Intelligence of 3. The
target also gains the ability to understand Sylvan and
to move its limbs, roots, vines, creepers, and so forth. It
gains blindsight in a 60-foot radius but is blind beyond
that range. The plant becomes a puck version of an
animated plant, such as a puck tree or puck shrub.
A puck can have only one plant charmed in this way
at a time. The condition ends if the puck harms the plant,
and the plant can make a DC 10 Wisdom saving throw to
end the condition if a request from the puck guarantee’s
the plant’s destruction. Plants freed from the charm leave
the puck’s grove, becoming inanimate again once 300
or more feet away for 24 hours. Otherwise, the plant is
charmed by the puck for 30 days, after which time the
plant becomes the puck’s willing servant (it’s no longer
charmed) even when threatened with death.
The puck is emotionally bonded with each plant it
has animated, charmed, and enthralled. Provided such a
plant is within 1 mile, the puck is aware when the plant
takes damage and knows its location. If such a plant is
destroyed, the puck is incapacitated until the end of its
next turn as it grieves.
Plant Manifestation.
As a bonus action, the puck
can cause a plantlike manifestation of itself to emerge
from the plant material of one plant charmed or
enthralled by the puck within 120 feet of it. The puck
can act through this duplicate until the end of its turn,
then the duplicate disappears.
actions
Superior Invisibility.
The puck magically turns
invisible until its concentration ends (as if concentrating
on a spell). Any equipment the puck wears or carries is
invisible with it.
reactions
Uncanny Dodge.
The puck halves the damage it takes
from an attack that hits it. It must be able to see the attacker.
•
Grasping vines and roots manifest in the lair. Each
creature hostile to the puck in the lair must succeed
on a DC 14 Strength or Dexterity saving throw
(target’s choice) or be moved up to 20 feet to another
unoccupied space in the lair and knocked prone.
•
Inanimate plants in the lair twist and sprout thorns.
The area becomes difficult terrain to creatures hostile
to the puck until initiative count 20 on the next round.
When such a creature moves more than half its speed
(as dictated by the difficult terrain) in the area, it takes
5 (2d4) piercing damage and must succeed on a DC
14 Constitution saving throw or become poisoned for
1 minute. A poisoned creature can repeat the saving
throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect
on itself on a success.
regional effects
A natural environment containing a puck’s lair is
warped by the puck’s presence, which creates one or
more of the following effects: •
Plants within 1 mile of the lair darken in hue and look
underwatered. Sap from these plants has a bloodlike
tinge. This sap seeps from oddly shaped holes that
resemble parts of despairing faces or wounds. Fruits
are deformed and oddly colored but are otherwise
normal in taste and nutrition. Traversing this area is
hard and time consuming—roots trip, vines block the
way, underbrush is dense and thorny.
•
Animals and other wild creatures within 1 mile of
the lair are unnaturally aggressive, especially toward
creatures hostile to the puck. However, animals are
absent within 600 feet of the lair. The puck uses them
to fertilize the grove
•
Creatures that spend 10 minutes or more within this
area feel their negative emotions heightened. Effects
that cause debilitating negative emotions double in
duration. Effects that provide bravery, joy, hope, and
similar emotions, such as the spells
aid
or
heroism
,
halve in duration. A
calm emotions
spell ends either
effect for that spell’s normal duration.
