381
C
hapter
2: V ampires
===
Young Vampire
Medium undead, any evil alignment
Armor Class 16 (natural armor)
Hit Points 119 (14d8 + 56)
Speed 30 ft., climb 30 ft.
str dex con int wis cha
 17 (+3) 17 (+3) 18 (+4) 12 (+1) 13 (+1) 13 (+1)
Saving Throws
Dex +7, Wis +5
Skills
Athletics +7, Perception +5, Stealth +7
Damage Resistances
necrotic, poison; bludgeoning,
piercing, and slashing from nonmagical attacks
Senses darkvision 90 ft., passive Perception 15
Languages the languages known in life
Challenge 9 (5,000 XP)
Proficiency Bonus +4
Regeneration.
The vampire regains 15 hit points at
the start of its turn if it has at least 1 hit point and isn’t in
sunlight. If the vampire takes radiant damage, this trait
doesn’t function at the start of the vampire’s next turn.
Spider Climb.
The vampire can climb difficult
surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without
needing to make an ability check.
Vampire Weaknesses.
The vampire has the
following flaws: Forbiddance.
The vampire can’t enter a residence
without an invitation from one of the occupants.
Stake to the Heart.
The vampire dies if a piercing
weapon made of wood is driven into its heart while
it is incapacitated in its resting place.
Sunlight Hypersensitivity.
The vampire takes 15 radiant
damage when it starts its turn in sunlight. While in sunlight,
it has disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks.
actions
Multiattack.
The vampire makes three attacks, only
one of which can be a bite.
Claws.
Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.
Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) slashing damage. If the target is a creature,
the vampire can grapple the target (escape DC 15).
Bite.
Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one
creature.
Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) piercing damage and 10 (3d6)
necrotic damage. The target’s hit point maximum is
reduced by an amount equal to the necrotic damage
taken, and the vampire regains hit points equal to that
amount. This reduction lasts until the target finishes a
long rest. The target dies if this effect reduces its hit point
maximum to 0.
Mist Form.
If the vampire isn’t in sunlight, it polymorphs
into a Medium cloud of mist, or back into its true form.
Anything it wears or carries transforms with it. While
in mist form, the vampire can’t take any actions, speak,
or manipulate objects. It is weightless, has a flying speed
of 30 feet, can hover, and can enter a hostile creature’s
space and stop there. In addition, if air can pass through
a space, the mist can do so without squeezing, but it can’t
pass through water. It has advantage on Strength, Dexterity,
and Constitution saving throws. A vampire in mist form
is immune to nonmagical damage, except damage from
sunlight, and has resistance to damage other than radiant.
The vampire reverts to its true form if it dies.
reactions
Misty Escape.
When it drops to 0 hit points outside
its resting place, the vampire transforms into its Mist
Form instead of falling unconscious. If the vampire can’t
transform, it dies.
While it has 0 hit points in mist form, the vampire
dies if it takes damage three times or radiant damage
once. It can’t willingly revert to its vampire form, and it
must reach its resting place within 2 hours or die. Once
in its resting place, it reverts to its vampire form. It is
then paralyzed until it regains at least 1 hit point. After
spending 1 hour in its resting place with 0 hit points, it
regains 1 hit point.
legendary actions
The vampire can take 2 legendary actions, choosing
from the options here. Only one legendary action option
can be used at a time and only at the end of another
creature’s turn. The vampire regains spent legendary
actions at the start of its turn.
Move.
The vampire moves up to its speed without
provoking opportunity attacks.
Claws.
The vampire attacks once with its claws.
gm advice: Vampires have always been problematic enemies in roleplaying games. Their lore in myth, entertainment, and
popular culture lends itself to some complicated and erratic game play. As much as they’re portrayed as very powerful and difficult
to defeat, they have very distinct weaknesses and vulnerabilities that can make them more fragile than is typical for an RPG foe.
The main weapon most vampires wield in real-world lore is their secrecy, which gives support to other strengths: wealth, power, anonymity, servants, thralls, connections, etc. When you have a monster that you can kill with a simple wooden stake to the heart,
the importance of secrecy cannot be understated. Vampires, especially the most powerful ones, would use every trick in their
arsenal to make sure that no one ever knew they existed.
