===
Dreamer Vampire (Adult)
Medium undead, any evil alignment
Armor Class 16 (natural armor)
Hit Points 161 (17d8 + 85)
Speed 30 ft., climb 30 ft.
str dex con int wis cha
 18 (+4) 16 (+3) 20 (+5) 16 (+3) 14 (+2) 14 (+2)
Saving Throws
Dex +8, Wis +7
Skills
Athletics +9, Insight +7, Perception +7, Stealth +8
Damage Resistances
psychic, poison; bludgeoning,
piercing, and slashing from nonmagical attacks
Senses darkvision 90 ft., passive Perception 17
Languages the languages known in life
Challenge 13 (10,000 XP)
Proficiency Bonus +5
Legendary Resistance (3/Day).
If the vampire fails a
saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead.
Nightmare Walker.
To benefit from a long rest, the
vampire must touch the dreams of at least one humanoid
within 1 mile. After finishing a long rest in this way, the
vampire gains one skill or tool proficiency until finishing
a long rest.
Regeneration.
The vampire regains 20 hit points at
the start of its turn if it has at least 1 hit point and isn’t in
sunlight. If the vampire takes radiant damage, this trait
doesn’t function at the start of the vampire’s next turn.
Spider Climb.
The vampire can climb difficult surfaces,
including upside down on ceilings, without needing to
make an ability check.
Vampire Weaknesses.
The vampire has the
following flaws: Forbiddance.
The vampire can’t enter a residence
without an invitation from one of the occupants.
Stake to the Heart.
The vampire dies if a piercing weapon
made of wood is driven into its heart while it is incapacitated
in its resting place.
Sunlight Hypersensitivity.
The vampire takes 10 radiant
damage when it starts its turn in sunlight. While in sunlight,
it has disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks.
actions
Multiattack.
The vampire makes three attacks,
only one of which can be a bite. In place of its bite, the
vampire can use nightmare killer.
Claws.
Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.
Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) slashing damage. If the target is a creature,
the vampire can grapple the target (escape DC 17).
Bite.
Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one
creature.
Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) piercing damage and 14 (4d6)
psychic damage. The target’s hit point maximum is
reduced by an amount equal to the psychic damage
taken, and the vampire regains hit points equal to that
amount. This reduction lasts until the target finishes a
long rest. The target dies if this effect reduces its hit point
maximum to 0. A humanoid slain in this way and then
buried rises the following night as a vampire spawn
under this vampire’s control.
Nightmare Killer (Recharge 6).
The vampire taps
into the nightmares of one creature the vampire can see
within 120 feet of it. The target must succeed on a DC 16
Wisdom saving throw or take 22 (4d10) psychic damage
and become frightened for 1 minute, immersed in an
illusory dreamscape. Half the psychic damage the target
takes reduces the target’s hit point maximum and allows
the vampire to regain hit points like the vampire’s bite.
The vampire is one manifestation and the source of the
target’s fears. This terrifying “reality” extends as far as the
target can see, including making the target unable to sense
creatures friendly to it if the vampire desires. The target
rationalizes any inconsistencies between the real world
and the dreamscape.
During the vampire’s turn, while the target remains
frightened in this way, instead of using its bite as part
of an action, the vampire forces the victim to repeat the
saving throw. On a failure, the target takes another 22
(4d10) psychic damage. If the save succeeds, the effect
ends. The effect also ends if the vampire ends its turn
out of range or dies.
reactions
Dreamer Escape.
When it drops to 0 hit points outside
its resting place, the vampire doesn’t fall unconscious
but polymorphs into a Medium cloud of luminous,
ectoplasmic “vapor” that sheds dim light in a 10-foot
radius. Anything it wears or carries transforms with it.
The vampire can’t transform into this vapor in sunlight.
If the vampire can’t transform, it dies.
While in vapor form, the vampire can’t take any actions or
manipulate objects. It is weightless, has a flying speed of 30 feet,
can hover, and can enter a hostile creature’s space and stop
there. In addition, this mist can pass through objects and
liquid but treats both as difficult terrain. It has advantage on
Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution saving throws, and it
is immune to nonmagical damage, except the damage from
sunlight, and has resistance to damage other than radiant. If
the vampire ends its turn inside an object, the vampire dies,
its body, in its true form, merged with the object.
While it has 0 hit points in vapor form, the vampire dies
if it takes damage three times or radiant damage once. It
can’t willingly revert to its vampire form, and it must reach
its resting place within 2 hours or die. The vampire reverts
to its true form if it dies. Once in its resting place, it reverts
to its vampire form. It is then paralyzed until it regains at
least 1 hit point. After spending 1 hour in its resting place
with 0 hit points, it regains 1 hit point.
legendary actions
The vampire can take 3 legendary actions, choosing
from the options here. Only one legendary action option
can be used at a time and only at the end of another
creature’s turn. The vampire regains spent legendary
actions at the start of its turn.
Move.
The vampire moves up to its speed without
provoking opportunity attacks.
Claws.
The vampire attacks once with its claws.
