383
C
hapter
2: V ampires
===
Ancient Vampire
Medium undead, any evil alignment
Armor Class 18 (natural armor)
Hit Points 209 (22d8 + 110)
Speed 40 ft., climb 40 ft.
str dex con int wis cha
 20 (+5) 20 (+5) 20 (+5) 14 (+2) 16 (+3) 16 (+3)
Saving Throws
Dex +11, Wis +9, Cha +9
Skills
Athletics +11, Perception +9, Stealth +11
Damage Resistances
necrotic, poison; bludgeoning,
piercing, and slashing from nonmagical attacks
Senses blindsight 30 ft., darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 19
Languages the languages known in life
Challenge 19 (25,000 XP)
Proficiency Bonus +6
Legendary Resistance (3/Day).
If the vampire fails a
saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead.
Regeneration.
The vampire regains 25 hit points at the
start of its turn if it has at least 1 hit point. If the vampire
takes radiant damage, it regains 10 hit points from the
next use of this trait instead.
Spider Climb.
The vampire can climb difficult
surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without
needing to make an ability check.
Vampire Weaknesses.
The vampire has the
following flaws: Forbiddance.
The vampire can’t enter a residence
without an invitation from one of the occupants.
Stake to the Heart.
The vampire dies if a piercing
weapon made of wood is driven into its heart while it is
incapacitated in its resting place.
actions
Multiattack.
The vampire makes three attacks, only
one of which can be a bite.
Claws.
Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5 ft., one
target.
Hit: 15 (2d8 + 6) slashing damage. If the target is a
creature, the vampire can grapple the target (escape DC 19).
Bite.
Melee Weapon Attack: +11 to hit, reach 5 ft., one
creature.
Hit: 15 (2d8 + 6) piercing damage and 17 (5d6)
necrotic damage. The target’s hit point maximum is
reduced by an amount equal to the necrotic damage
taken, and the vampire regains hit points equal to that
amount. This reduction lasts until the target finishes a
long rest. The target dies if this effect reduces its hit point
maximum to 0. A humanoid slain in this way and then
buried rises the following night as a vampire spawn
under this vampire’s control.
Beast Form.
If the vampire isn’t in sunlight, it
polymorphs into a Medium or smaller beast, usually
with fangs and claws, or back into its true form. While in
beast form, the vampire can gain a fly or swim speed of
30 feet, but its other statistics remain the same. If the new
form lacks claws, the vampire can make slam attacks that
deal the same amount of bludgeoning damage. Anything
it wears transforms with it, but nothing it is carrying
does. It reverts to its true form if it dies.
Mist Form.
If the vampire isn’t in sunlight, it polymorphs
into a Medium cloud of mist, or back into its true form.
Anything it wears or carries transforms with it. While
in mist form, the vampire can’t take any actions, speak, or
manipulate objects. It is weightless, has a flying speed of
120 feet, can hover, and can enter a hostile creature’s space
and stop there. In addition, if air can pass through a space,
the mist can do so without squeezing, but it can’t pass
through water. It has advantage on Strength, Dexterity,
and Constitution saving throws. A vampire in mist form
is immune to nonmagical damage, except damage from
sunlight, and has resistance to damage other than radiant.
The vampire reverts to its true form if it dies.
reactions
Misty Escape.
When it drops to 0 hit points outside
its resting place, the vampire transforms into its Mist
Form instead of falling unconscious. If the vampire can’t
transform, it dies.
While it has 0 hit points in mist form, the vampire
dies if it takes damage three times or radiant damage
once. It can’t willingly revert to its vampire form, and it
must reach its resting place within 2 hours or die. Once
in its resting place, it reverts to its vampire form. It is
then paralyzed until it regains at least 1 hit point. After
spending 1 hour in its resting place with 0 hit points, it
regains 1 hit point.
legendary actions
The vampire can take 3 legendary actions, choosing
from the options here. Only one legendary action option
can be used at a time and only at the end of another
creature’s turn. The vampire regains spent legendary
actions at the start of its turn.
Move.
The vampire moves up to its speed without
provoking opportunity attacks.
Claws.
The vampire attacks once with its claws.
Bite (2 Actions).
The vampire makes one bite attack.
Purify Blood (2 Actions).
Even if the vampire can’t
take actions, one condition ends on it.
