===
Ogresh Vampire (Adult)
Medium undead, any evil alignment
Armor Class 16 (natural armor)
Hit Points 161 (17d8 + 85)
Speed 30 ft., climb 30 ft.
str dex con int wis cha
 18 (+4) 16 (+3) 20 (+5) 13 (+1) 14 (+2) 16 (+3)
Saving Throws
Con +10, Wis +7
Skills
Athletics +9, Deception +8, Insight +7, Perception
+7, Persuasion +8
Damage Immunities poison
Damage Resistances
necrotic; bludgeoning, piercing,
and slashing from nonmagical attacks
Condition Immunities charmed, poisoned
Senses darkvision 90 ft., passive Perception 17
Languages the languages known in life
Challenge 13 (10,000 XP)
Proficiency Bonus +5
Legendary Resistance (3/Day).
If the vampire fails a
saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead.
Massive.
The vampire is considered to be one size larger
when determining what can grapple it, as well as its
carrying capacity and the weight it can push, drag, or lift.
Regeneration.
The vampire regains 20 hit points at
the start of its turn if it has at least 1 hit point and isn’t in
sunlight. If the vampire takes radiant damage, this trait
doesn’t function at the start of the vampire’s next turn.
Spider Climb.
The vampire can climb difficult
surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without
needing to make an ability check.
Vampire Weaknesses.
The vampire has the
following flaws: Forbiddance.
The vampire can’t enter a residence
without an invitation from one of the occupants.
Stake to the Heart.
The vampire dies if a piercing
weapon made of wood is driven into its heart while it is
incapacitated in its resting place.
Sunlight Hypersensitivity.
The vampire takes 10 radiant
damage when it starts its turn in sunlight. While in sunlight,
it has disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks.
actions
Multiattack.
The vampire makes three attacks, only
one of which can be a bite.
Claws.
Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.
Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) slashing damage. If the target is a creature,
the vampire can grapple the target (escape DC 17).
Bite.
Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one
creature.
Hit: 13 (2d8 + 4) piercing damage and 14 (4d6)
necrotic damage. The target’s hit point maximum is
reduced by an amount equal to the necrotic damage
taken, and the vampire regains hit points equal to that
amount. This reduction lasts until the target finishes a
long rest. The target dies if this effect reduces its hit point
maximum to 0. A humanoid slain in this way and then
buried rises the following night as a vampire spawn
under this vampire’s control.
Charm.
The vampire targets one humanoid or beast
it can see within 30 feet of it. If the target can see the
vampire, the target must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom
saving throw against this magic or be charmed by the
vampire. The charmed target regards the vampire as
a trusted friend to be heeded and protected. Although
the target isn’t under the vampire’s control, it takes the
vampire’s requests or actions in the most favorable way it
can, and it’s a willing target for the vampire’s bite attack.
Each time the vampire or the vampire’s allies do
anything harmful to the target, it can repeat the saving
throw, ending the effect on itself on a success. Otherwise,
the effect lasts 24 hours or until the vampire dies, is on
a different plane of existence than the target, or takes a
bonus action to end the effect.
Mist Form.
If the vampire isn’t in sunlight, it
polymorphs into a Medium cloud of mist, or back into
its true form. Anything it wears or carries transforms
with it. While in mist form, the vampire can’t take any
actions, speak, or manipulate objects. It is weightless,
has a flying speed of 30 feet, can hover, and can enter
a hostile creature’s space and stop there. In addition,
if air can pass through a space, the mist can do so
without squeezing, but it can’t pass through water. It
has advantage on Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution
saving throws. A vampire in mist form is immune to
nonmagical damage, except damage from sunlight,
and has resistance to damage other than radiant. The
vampire reverts to its true form if it dies.
reactions
Misty Escape.
When it drops to 0 hit points outside
its resting place, the vampire transforms into its Mist
Form instead of falling unconscious. If the vampire can’t
transform, it dies.
While it has 0 hit points in mist form, the vampire
dies if it takes damage three times or radiant damage
once. It can’t willingly revert to its vampire form, and it
must reach its resting place within 2 hours or die. Once
in its resting place, it reverts to its vampire form. It is
then paralyzed until it regains at least 1 hit point. After
spending 1 hour in its resting place with 0 hit points, it
regains 1 hit point.
legendary actions
The vampire can take 3 legendary actions, choosing
from the options here. Only one legendary action option
can be used at a time and only at the end of another
creature’s turn. The vampire regains spent legendary
actions at the start of its turn.
Move.
The vampire moves up to its speed without
provoking opportunity attacks.
Claws.
The vampire attacks once with its claws.
