===
Lenchtahg
Medium fiend, neutral evil
Armor Class 15 (natural armor)
Hit Points 110 (13d8 + 52)
Speed 40 ft.
str dex con int wis cha
 18 (+4) 11 (+0) 18 (+4) 10 (+0) 11 (+0) 13 (+1)
Skills
Perception +3
Damage Immunities fire, poison, radiant
Damage Resistances
bludgeoning, piercing, and
slashing from nonmagical attacks
Condition Immunities charmed, frightened, poisoned
Senses darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 13
Languages Abyssal, Celestial, Infernal
Challenge 5 (1,800 XP)
Proficiency Bonus +3
Berserk.
Whenever the lenchtahg starts its turn with 54 hit
points or fewer, roll a d6. On a 1, the lenchtahg recalls
its former life and current agony, and it goes berserk.
On each of its turns while berserk, the lenchtahg attacks
the nearest creature it can see. It treats all creatures as
enemies and makes any opportunity attack it can. Also, it
has advantage on attack rolls, but all attack rolls against
it have advantage. If no creature is near enough to move
to and attack, the lenchtahg moves as far as it can toward
the closest creature.
Once the lenchtahg goes berserk, it remains so until
destroyed or it has more than 54 hit points. Also, a fiend
can calm the lenchtahg. The lenchtahg must be able
to understand the fiend, who must take an action to
make a DC 15 Charisma (Persuasion) check. If the check
succeeds, the lenchtahg ceases being berserk.
Magic Resistance.
The lenchtahg has advantage on
saving throws against spells and other magical effects.
Magic Weapons.
The lenchtahg’s weapon attacks
are magical.
Radiant Absorption.
Whenever the lenchtahg is
subjected to radiant damage from a source other than
a lenchtahg, it takes no damage and instead regains hit
points equal to half the radiant damage dealt to it.
Rejuvenation.
If the lenchtahg’s head survives its
demise, the head must be doused in holy water and
ritually consecrated in a 1-hour ceremony or be the
target of a
dispel evil and good
spell. If it isn’t, then
the lenchtahg reappears in 6 days, emerging from a
fiery explosion in a 20-foot-radius sphere centered
on the head. Creatures in that area must make a DC
15 Dexterity saving throw, taking 28 (8d6) damage
on a failed saving throw, or half as much damage on
a successful one. The head can’t rejuvenate in a holy
hallow
spell’s area.
Water Aversion.
If drenched in 5 gallons or more of
water, or any amount of holy water, the lenchtahg has
disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks until the
end of its next turn.
actions
Multiattack.
The lenchtahg makes two claw attacks,
makes one claw attack and uses radiant gaze once, or
uses radiant gaze twice.
Claw.
Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.
Hit: 9 (2d4 + 4) slashing damage and 9 (2d8) fire damage.
Radiant Gaze.
The lenchtahg targets one creature
it can see within 60 feet of it with burning radiance.
The target gains no benefit from cover and must succeed
on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or take 13 (3d8)
radiant damage.
Endless Pain
. A lenchtahg has lost its former identity,
but Malikir’s cruel design ensures that it remains sapient
and in constant pain, aware of its enslavement. Malikir
even went to the trouble of ensuring that a lenchtahg
might recall memories of its past life as a further
torment, though this trait drives the lenchtahg into
bouts of uncontrolled rage.
Useful Minions
. Lenchtahgs possess many useful
properties, such as magic resistance, rejuvenation, and
the ability to absorb holy power to heal themselves.
This latter trait is useful against the forces of the Seraphs.
However, a lenchtahg is difficult to create. Even if
capturing a Seraph alive were a straightforward task,
the effort expended in transforming it into a lenchtahg
is almost prohibitive, a luxury only afforded to Arch
Daemons and their most powerful followers.
