===
Deathmoss
Large elemental, chaotic evil
Armor Class 13 (natural armor)
Hit Points 133 (14d10 + 56)
Speed 20 ft., burrow 20 ft., climb 20 ft.
str dex con int wis cha
	18	(+4)	5	(–3)	18	(+4)	5	(–3)	10	(+0)	5	(–3)
Damage Vulnerabilities
cold
Damage Immunities poison
Damage Resistances
necrotic; bludgeoning, piercing,
and slashing from nonmagical attacks
Condition Immunities exhaustion, paralyzed,
petrified, poisoned, unconscious
Senses darkvision 60 ft., tremorsense 60 ft., passive Perception 10
Languages Terran
Challenge 8 (3,900 XP)
Proficiency Bonus +3
Blight.
Any creature that touches the deathmoss or
hits it with a melee attack while within 5 feet of it must
succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or become
poisoned until the end of that creature’s next turn.
Earth Glide.
The deathmoss can burrow through
nonmagical, unworked earth and stone. While doing so,
it doesn’t disturb the material it moves through.
False Appearance.
While the deathmoss remains
motionless, it is indistinguishable from a moss-
covered mound.
Siege Monster.
The deathmoss deals double damage
to objects and structures.
actions
Multiattack.
The deathmoss makes two slam attacks.
It can use calming spores in place of one attack.
Slam.
Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 10 ft., one
target.
Hit: 13 (2d8 + 4) bludgeoning damage, 7 (2d6)
necrotic damage, and Blight. The target must succeed
on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or its hit point
maximum is reduced by an amount equal to the necrotic
damage taken. This reduction lasts until the target finishes
a long rest. The target dies if this effect reduces its hit
point maximum to 0.
Calming Spores (Recharges after a Short or
Long Rest).
The deathmoss emits a cloud of spores in
a 20-foot-radius sphere that goes around corners. Each
creature in that area must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution
saving throw or become indifferent toward the deathmoss
for 1 minute, becoming unable to take hostile action toward
the elemental. The target can repeat the saving throw at the
end of each of its turns, when the deathmoss or its allies
harm the creature, or the creature witnesses any ally being
similarly harmed, ending the effect on itself on a success. If
the initial saving throw is successful or the effect ends for a
creature, the creature is then subjected to Blight.
===
Bogfoul
Large elemental, chaotic evil
Armor Class 15 (natural armor)
Hit Points 119 (14d10 + 42)
Speed 30 ft., swim 90 ft.
str dex con int wis cha
	17	(+3)	16	(+3)	17	(+3)	5	(–3)	10	(+0)	6	(–2)
Skills
Perception +3, Stealth +6
Damage Immunities poison
Damage Resistances
acid; bludgeoning, piercing, and
slashing from nonmagical attacks
Condition Immunities exhaustion, grappled, paralyzed,
petrified, poisoned, prone, restrained, unconscious
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 13
Languages Aquan
Challenge 6 (2,300 XP)
Proficiency Bonus +3
Blight.
Any creature that touches the bogfoul or hits it
with a melee attack while within 5 feet of it must succeed
on a DC 14 Constitution saving throw or become poisoned
until the end of that creature’s next turn.
Freeze.
If the bogfoul takes cold damage, it partially
freezes. Its speed is reduced by 20 feet until the end of
its next turn.
Water Form.
The bogfoul can enter a hostile creature’s
space, subjecting that creature to Blight, and stop there.
It can move through a space as narrow as 1 inch wide
without squeezing.
actions
Multiattack.
The bogfoul makes two slam attacks.
Slam.
Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one
target.
Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) bludgeoning damage, 7 (2d6)
poison damage, and Blight.
Noxious Splash.
The bogfoul hurls a glob of foul water
at a point it can see within 60 feet of it. Each creature
within a 10-foot-radius sphere centered on that point
must make a DC 14 Constitution saving throw. The
sphere goes around corners. On a failed save, a creature
takes 17 (5d6) poison damage and becomes poisoned
until the end of its next turn.
Swamp (Recharge 5–6).
Each creature fully in
the bogfoul’s space must make a DC 14 Constitution
saving throw. On a failure, a target takes 10 (2d6 + 3)
bludgeoning damage and 7 (2d6) poison damage.
If the target is Large or smaller, it is also grappled
(escape DC 14). Until this grapple ends, the target is
restrained and able to breathe only if it can breathe
water. If the saving throw is successful, the target is
pushed out of the bogfoul’s space. A creature within
5 feet of the bogfoul can pull a creature or object out
of it by taking an action to make a DC 14 Strength
(Athletics) check and succeeding. Such a creature is
exposed to the Blight trait.
