145
G
rim
H
ollow
m
onster
G
rimoire
G
===
Grotesquerie
Large aberration, chaotic evil
Armor Class 17 (natural armor)
Hit Points 210 (20d10 + 100)
Speed 10 ft.
str dex con int wis cha
 16 (+3) 8 (–1) 20 (+5) 10 (+0) 16 (+3) 6 (–2)
Saving Throws
Dex +4, Cha +3
Skills
Perception +8
Damage Immunities acid, poison
Damage
Resistances
bludgeoning, piercing, and
slashing damage from nonmagical attacks
Condition Immunities poisoned, prone
Senses darkvision 60 ft., tremorsense 60 ft., passive Perception 18
Languages Deep Speech, telepathy 60 ft.
Challenge 16 (15,000 XP)
Proficiency Bonus +5
False Appearance.
While the grotesquerie remains
motionless, it is indistinguishable from a rotting tree stump.
Legendary Resistance (3/Day).
If the grotesquerie
fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead.
Woodland Minions.
The grotesquerie starts with three
swarms of grotesquerie minions at its command. Each
swarm is the grotesquerie’s ally, and it takes its turn just
after the grotesquerie. The swarm obeys the grotesquerie’s
telepathic or verbal commands (no action for the grotes-
querie). If issued no commands, the swarm defends itself
from hostile creatures, but otherwise takes no actions.
actions
Multiattack.
The grotesquerie makes two bite attacks.
Bite.
Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.
Hit
: 12 (2d8 + 3) bludgeoning damage and 13 (3d8) acid damage. If the target is a Medium or smaller creature, it is
grappled (escape DC 16). Until this grapple ends, the target
is restrained, and the grotesquerie can’t bite another target.
Call Animals.
The grotesquerie calls another swarm
of grotesquerie minions into an unoccupied space within
60 feet of the grotesquerie
Devour Animals.
The grotesquerie orders one swarm
of its minions into its maw, regaining hit points up to
those the swarm has remaining.
Grotesque Vomit (Recharge 4–6).
The grotesquerie
vomits acidic bile and creatures it has swallowed in a
30-foot cone. Each creature in the area, including the
vomited creature, must make a DC 18 Dexterity saving
throw, taking 45 (10d8) acid damage on a failed save, or
half as much damage on a successful one. Any vomit-
ed creature is thrown 30 feet through the area, taking
7 (2d6) bludgeoning damage and landing prone in an
unoccupied space.
If the grotesquerie has used Devour Animals, the
vomit also contains a swarm of grotesquerie minions.
This swarm lands safely in a space in the cone and takes
a turn just after the grotesquerie.
Swallow.
The grotesquerie makes one bite attack against
a Medium or smaller target it holds grappled. If the attack
hits, the target is also swallowed, and the grapple ends.
While swallowed, the target is blinded and restrained, it
has total cover against anything that originates outside the
grotesquerie, and it takes 10 (3d6) bludgeoning damage
and 18 (4d8) acid damage at the start of each of the grotes-
querie’s turns. A grotesquerie can have only one creature
swallowed at a time.
If the grotesquerie takes 25 damage or more on a single
turn from the swallowed creature, the grotesquerie must
succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw at the end
of that turn or regurgitate the creature, which falls prone
in a space within 10 feet of the grotesquerie. If the grotes-
querie dies, a swallowed creature is no longer restrained
by it and can escape from the corpse by using 10 feet of
movement, exiting prone.
legendary actions
The grotesquerie can take 3 legendary actions, choosing
from the options below. Only one legendary action op-
tion can be used at a time and only at the end of another
creature’s turn. The grotesquerie regains spent legendary
actions at the start of its turn.
Bite.
The grotesquerie makes one bite attack. It can
swallow instead.
Move.
The grotesquerie moves.
Animal Control (Costs 2 Actions).
The grotesquerie
uses Call Animals or Devour Animals.
gms advice: A grotesquerie might sit in the center of
a large area and control more than just tiny woodland
creatures. Larger beasts, or even corrupted fey, might serve
the horror. In this case, the characters might think that
something else is responsible for the awful conditions and
multiple disappearances in the area. They’ll be surprised
when the rotten tree trunk in the center of the clearing is
the real culprit.
