===
Kokela
Gargantuan aberration, chaotic evil
Armor Class 18 (natural armor)
Hit Points 410 (20d20 + 200)
Speed 0 ft.
str dex con int wis cha
 17 (+3) 6 (–2) 30 (+10) 15 (+2) 18 (+4) 21 (+5)
Saving Throws
Int +9, Wis +11, Cha +12
Damage Immunities poison; bludgeoning, piercing,
and slashing from nonmagical attacks
Condition Immunities blinded, charmed, exhaustion,
frightened, grappled, incapacitated, paralyzed, poisoned,
restrained, stunned
Senses truesight 120 ft., passive Perception 14
Languages all, telepathy 120 ft.
Challenge 22 (41,000 XP)
Proficiency Bonus +7
Nightmare Aura.
Terrain within 150 feet of the kokela
looks like whatever horrid, squirming vista the kokela
currently dreams. Each creature that enters the aura for
the first time or starts its turn there must succeed on a
DC 20 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened until
the start of its next turn. Within 20 feet of the kokela, a
creature takes 11 (2d10) psychic damage and can move at
no more than half its speed.
The nightmare aura doesn’t match reality and can
conceal danger, so those moving through the terrain see
through the illusion if they use an action and succeed
on a DC 20 Intelligence (Investigation) check to examine
the area. Those who succeed on this check see the dream
world vaguely superimposed over the real terrain. Such
creatures have advantage on saving throws against
the aura’s frightening effect and against the Alien Sun
legendary action.
If a creature drops to 0 hit points in the aura, one of its
ears detaches and flies away.
Eldritch Distortion.
Each time the kokela is targeted
by a
magic missile
spell, a line spell, or a spell that
requires a ranged attack roll, roll a d6. On a 1 to 3,
the kokela is affected normally. On a 4 to 6, the effect
rebounds at the caster as if it originated from the kokela.
Eternal Slumber.
The kokela is unconscious but can
sense its surroundings and take actions, bonus actions,
legendary actions, and reactions while in this state. It
seldom speaks in this state, but it can.
Sound Reliant.
While the kokela is deafened, it has
disadvantage on attack rolls, and it can’t use Hum or
Swarm Song.
Legendary Resistance (3/Day).
If the kokela fails
a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead.
actions
Multiattack.
The kokela makes two slam attacks and
uses hum.
Slam.
Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 20 ft., one
target.
Hit: 25 (5d8 + 3) bludgeoning damage.
Hum.
Each creature within 60 feet of the kokela must
make a DC 20 Constitution saving throw, taking 22
(4d10) thunder damage on a failed save, or half as much
damage on a successful one. This vibration transcends
hearing, and so magical silence and being unable to hear
don’t protect a creature.
reactions
Counterspell.
When a creature within 60 feet of the
kokela casts a spell of 5th level or lower, that spell fails
and has no effect. The kokela makes a Charisma check
(DC 10 + the spell’s level) to counter higher-level spells.
legendary actions
The kokela can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from
the options here. Only one legendary action option can be
used at a time and only at the end of another creature’s
turn. The kokela regains spent legendary actions at the
start of its turn.
Attack.
The kokela makes one slam attack.
Dream Movement.
The kokela teleports up to 60 feet.
It can arrive in spaces other creatures occupy, and each
of those creatures is shunted to the nearest unoccupied
space within 5 feet of the kokela.
Swarm Song (Costs 2 Actions, Recharge 6).
The kokela calls for a swarm of ears. The swarm rolls
initiative and arrives on that initiative the next round in
an unoccupied space 90 feet from the kokela.
Alien Sun (Costs 3 Actions, 1/Day).
An alien sun
rises in the kokela’s aura. Each creature in that area must
make a DC 20 Constitution saving throw. On a failure, a
creature takes 39 (6d12) radiant damage and is blinded
for 1 minute. If the save succeeds, the creature takes half
as much damage and isn’t blinded. A blinded target can
repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns,
ending the blinded condition on itself on a success.
DC 20 Intelligence (Arcana): Using magic on the kokela
is risky. It can reflect at the caster, or the kokela might
dream it out of existence. The kokela can suddenly disappear
and reappear elsewhere in its bizarre environment.
DC 25 Intelligence (History): Tales tell of a priest
who silenced the kokela for a time by rendering it unable
to hear.
