379
C
hapter
2: V ampires
vampire lore
Vampires are known throughout Etharis, but many
prefer to believe the dire creatures are stories meant to
scare children into going to bed on time and to come
home before sunset. That said, a few details are common
among the tales: DC 10 Intelligence (Religion): A vampire’s hunger
is their focus, and if presented with large amounts of
food—blood, fresh meat, and marrow—the creature
might be distracted.
Vampires heal quickly, but they have notable weaknesses.
They share a weakness to sunlight and running water, and
vampires can enter a home only if invited.
DC 15 Intelligence (History): Religious folk carry
tales of vampires from region to region, but there are
whispers that ancient vampires have infiltrated the
upper echelons of some churches.
DC 20 Intelligence (History): Few know that a
vampire’s weaknesses lessen as the vampire ages.
Some vulnerabilities disappear completely, while the
vampire’s body regenerates faster and faster. An ancient
vampire even becomes inured to sunlight; pride might
be an ancient’s greatest weakness.
The vampire also gains power with age. Older
vampires can turn to mist, transform into animals, and
move and attack with frightening alacrity.
It is said that a vampire isn’t truly dead until their
heart has been destroyed. Folklore maintains that some
vampires can regenerate even after being reduced to ash.
DC 20 Intelligence (History): Historical accounts tell
of ancient vampires who have their claws in everything
from politics and the economy to cultural activities. They
have been known to have “friends” in high places.
DC 20 Intelligence (Religion): A vampire can sense
if their vampiric kin come to harm. The blood bond they
share is powerful, but this sense lacks precision. How
a vampire reacts to the destruction of one of their kin
depends on the vampire’s personality.
Curing a vampire is a tricky business, requiring a
vampire spawn’s progenitor to be slain and
remove curse
to be cast upon the spawn quickly. Thereafter, specific
cures must be applied, and these remedies vary from
vampire to vampire according to the tales.
The body parts of a vampire can be used in various
ways. Some can be made into magic items. Others can be
used or consumed for various benefits. The downside is
that consuming any part of a vampire exposes one to the
curse for a time.
buildinga vampire
Vampires vary. This chapter provides several ways to
customize them. But the basic process for building a
vampire is as follows: •
Start with the stat block from the Vampire Statistics
section labeled with the age you prefer.
•
Add capabilities you like from the vampire’s original
ancestry. Some samples can be found following the
Vampire Ancestry section. Most of these capabilities
manifest once the vampire is young or older, but it’s
up to you whether to add them to your vampires.
•
Give the vampire other equipment, proficiencies, actions,
and traits fitting for the NPC you mean to create.
•
Apply effects from equipment and spells you’ve given
your unique vampire.
•
Evaluate whether you’ve added anything that
increases the vampire’s Challenge.
vampire encounters
Vampires group into loose packs of like-blooded
companions. These packs commonly contain three to
eight (1d6 + 2) vampires, with one member at a higher
age than the others—the pack’s leader and, likely,
progenitor. Each vampire could have a couple (1d3 – 1)
spawn. The pack might share a lair, but they aren’t
always together. When building a vampire encounter,
consider the following elements: •
Who leads the pack?
•
Where does the pack live?
•
Is there enough food for the pack?
•
What is the pack’s motivation?
leaders
The eldest member of a pack is the default leader, regardless
of the prowess of other pack members. This drive is innate
and has few exceptions. Tales of packs mixing speak of
discord handled quickly and violently, with one vampire
rising to dominate the others through might.
A pack leader is the primary defender of the pack.
They often have the most potent abilities, which they
use with fervor and skill. Vampires are canny hunters.
But a powerful and cunning leader hones the pack into
a terrifying force.
A vampire who feels the pack leader is unworthy
rarely confronts the leader directly. Instead, they
sabotage the leader, even going so far as to tip off
enemies where and when the leader is vulnerable.
A pack leader’s position is seldom stable.
If a vampire advances to the same age category
as their pack leader, only other loyalties can prevent
conflict. Such tensions can range from simmering hostility
to outright combat. Eventually, one of the elders must
leave and create their own pack elsewhere.
