71
G
rim
H
ollow
m
onster
G
rimoire
C
===
Ancient Corpse Walker
Large undead (shapechanger), chaotic evil
Armor Class 16 (natural armor)
Hit Points 123 (13d10 + 52)
Speed 40 ft.
str dex con int wis cha
	19	(+4)	15	(+2)	19	(+4)	10	(+0)	12	(+1)	9	(–1)
Saving Throws
Con +8, Wis +5
Skills
Perception +5
Damage Immunities necrotic, poison
Damage Resistances
bludgeoning, piercing, and
slashing from nonmagical attacks that aren’t silvered
Condition Immunities exhaustion, poisoned
Senses darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 15
Languages languages it knew in life
Challenge 10 (5,900 XP)
Proficiency Bonus +4
Cursed Gaze.
A humanoid that starts its turn within
30 feet of and able to see the ancient corpse walker must
succeed on a DC 16 Charisma saving throw, provided
the corpse walker isn’t incapacitated. On a failure, the
humanoid is frightened for 1 minute. A frightened
target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of
its turns, with disadvantage if not averting its eyes from
the corpse walker, ending the effect on itself on a success.
A creature failing two of these saving throws becomes
cursed with disturbing thoughts. Such a creature can’t
benefit from a short or long rest until the curse is removed.
On a successful save, the target is immune to any corpse
walker’s Cursed Gaze for the next 24 hours.
Unless surprised, a creature can avert its eyes to avoid
the saving throw. If the creature does so, it can’t see the
corpse walker until the start of its next turn. A creature
that looks at the corpse walker in the meantime must
immediately make the save.
Spore Calling.
When the ancient corpse walker attacks,
loyal undead within 120 feet of it come to its aid. Moderate
or stronger wind can disperse these spores before they
are effective.
Spore Cloud.
. If the ancient corpse walker isn’t in
sunlight, it can use its action to polymorph into a Large
cloud of spores or back into its true form. Anything it’s
wearing or carrying transforms with it. It reverts to its
true form if it dies. In cloud form, the ancient corpse
walker can’t take any actions, speak, or manipulate
objects. It’s weightless, has a flying speed of 20 feet, can
hover, and can enter a hostile creature’s space and stop
there. This cloud spreads around corners. If air can pass
through a space, the cloud can do so without squeezing,
but it can’t pass through water. It has advantage on
Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution saving throws,
except those against wind. The cloud form is immune to
nonmagical damage other than that from sunlight.
A creature that starts its turn in the cloud must make
a DC 16 Constitution saving throw. If the save fails, the
creature takes 13 (3d8) poison and 10 (3d6) necrotic
damage and becomes poisoned until the start of its
next turn. On a successful save, a creature takes half
the damage and isn’t poisoned.
After 24 hours, corpses of beasts or humanoids that
were in the spore area rise as zombies loyal to the ancient
corpse walker. If such a corpse is that of an evil humanoid,
it instead rises as a corpse walker loyal to the ancient corpse
walker. These spores can animate a corpse only once.
Spore Fortitude.
If damage reduces the ancient corpse
walker to 0 hit points, it must make a Constitution saving
throw with a DC of 5 + the damage taken, unless the damage
is radiant or from a critical hit. On a success, the corpse
walker drops to 1 hit point instead.
When it drops to 0 hit points, the ancient corpse
walker transforms into its Spore Cloud form. If it can’t
transform, it is destroyed. The spores of this cloud deal
half their normal damage and can’t animate corpses.
The ancient corpse walker can’t transform back into its
true form until it has at least 1 hit point. It must reach its
preferred resting place within 2 hours or be destroyed.
Once in its resting place, it reverts to its normal form.
It is then paralyzed and at 0 hit points for 1 hour, and
then it regains 1 hit point and ceases being paralyzed.
If the ancient corpse walker takes damage while at
0 hit points, if able, it makes the same saving throw that
would allow it to drop to 1 hit point. However, on a success,
the ancient corpse walker remains at 0 hit points. If the
ancient corpse walker fails or can’t make this saving
throw, it is destroyed.
Sunlight Hypersensitivity.
The ancient corpse
walker takes 20 radiant damage when it starts its turn in
sunlight. While in sunlight, it has disadvantage on attack
rolls and ability checks.
actions
Multiattack.
The ancient corpse walker makes two
slam attacks.
Slam.
Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one
target.
Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) bludgeoning damage and 10
(3d6) necrotic damage. If the target is a creature, it must
succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw, or its hit
point maximum is reduced by an amount equal to the
necrotic damage taken, and the ancient corpse walker
regains hit points equal to that amount. This reduction
lasts until the target finishes a long rest. The target dies
if this effect reduces its hit point maximum to 0. A
humanoid slain this way rises 24 hours later as a zombie,
but it rises as a corpse walker if it was evil. These undead
are loyal to the ancient corpse walker.
gms advice: An ancient corpse walker can lair in ruins
and create a legion of humanoid and beast zombies, as well
as corpse walkers. Greater undead beings and necromancers
might also use these creatures as lieutenants.
