35
G
rim
H
ollow
m
onster
G
rimoire
B
===
Blood Ooze
Large ooze, unaligned
Armor Class 11
Hit Points 150 (20d10 + 40)
Speed 20 ft., climb 20 ft.
str dex con int wis cha
	17	(+3)	13	(+1)	15	(+2)	3	(–4)	10	(+0)	3	(–4)
Skills
Stealth +4
Condition Immunities blinded, deafened,
exhaustion, prone
Senses blindsight 60 ft. (blind beyond this radius),
passive Perception 10
Languages —
Challenge 7 (2,900 XP)
Proficiency Bonus +3
Amorphous.
The blood ooze can move through a space
as narrow as 1 inch wide without squeezing.
Blood Scent.
Double the blood ooze’s blindsight for
detecting living creatures that lack all their hit points. The
blood ooze can use a bonus action to make a pseudopod
attack against or take the Dash action to move toward
such a creature.
Spider Climb.
The blood ooze can climb difficult
surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without
needing to make an ability check.
actions
Multiattack.
The blood ooze makes two pseudopod
attacks. It can use engulf in place of one of these attacks.
Pseudopod.
Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft.,
one target.
Hit: 12 (2d8 + 3) bludgeoning damage and
7 (2d6) necrotic damage. If the target is a Medium or
smaller creature, it is grappled (escape DC 14). Until this
grapple ends, the target is restrained. The blood ooze can
grapple up to two creatures at a time.
Engulf.
One creature grappled by the blood ooze must
succeed on a DC 14 Strength saving throw or be pulled into
the ooze’s body. An engulfed target is blinded, restrained,
unable to breathe, and has total cover from effects that
originate outside the ooze. At the start of each of the ooze’s
turns, the engulfed creature takes 18 (4d8) acid damage.
The ooze can have only one creature engulfed at a time.
An engulfed creature can try to escape by taking an
action to make its choice of a DC 14 Strength (Athletics)
or Dexterity (Acrobatics) check. On a success, the creature
escapes and uses 5 ft. of movement to enter a space of its
choice within 5 ft. of the ooze.
If the ooze dies, an engulfed creature is no longer
restrained by it and can escape from the corpse by using
10 feet of movement. The creature also gains an infusion
of the ooze’s life force, regaining 16 (3d10) hit points, gaining
any excess as temporary hit points that last 24 hours. If
a living creature dies within 24 hours of this infusion,
the corpse dissolves into a blood ooze over the next hour.
Magic that cures disease or removes a curse not only
prevents this change, but also removes temporary hit
points gained from the infusion.
If a creature dies while engulfed by the ooze, the
creature’s body dissolves inside the ooze. The ooze
expels anything the creature wore or carried.
