===
Corporeal Cauchemange
Medium aberration, neutral evil
Armor Class 14 (natural armor)
Hit Points 44 (8d8 + 8)
Speed 30 ft.
str dex con int wis cha
	10	(+0)	15	(+2)	12	(+1)	11	(+0)	15	(+2)	16	(+3)
Skills
Intimidation+5, Perception+4
Condition Immunities frightened
Senses darkvision 120 ft, passive Perception 14
Languages the languages of its host, telepathy 30 ft.
Challenge 2 (450 XP)
Proficiency Bonus +2
Grappler.
The cauchemange has advantage on attack
rolls against any creature grappled by it.
Hallucinatory Hold.
The corporeal cauchemange needs
only to touch a creature to deal damage, grappling a creature
by force of presence rather than physical strength. A creature
grappled by the cauchemange can also use Wisdom
(Insight) to escape. The creature believes the damage
the cauchemange deals to be of a type appropriate to the
nightmare form the cauchemange takes.
Happiness Susceptibility.
If a creature within 30 ft.
of the corporeal cauchemange uses an action to make a
DC 13 Charisma (Performance) check and succeeds,
creating a presentation that inspires happiness or hope, the
cauchemange has disadvantage on attack rolls until the
end of the performing creature’s next turn.
Nightmare Aura.
Each creature of the corporeal
cauchemange’s choice that starts its turn within 30 ft. of
the cauchemange must succeed on a DC 13 Wisdom saving
throw or sense the cauchemange as something to be feared,
becoming frightened until the start of the creature’s next turn.
On a successful saving throw, the creature is immune to the
Nightmare Aura of all cauchemanges for 1 hour.
Psychic Teleport (Recharge 5–6).
As its movement,
the cauchemange can teleport to an unoccupied space within
30 ft. of it, provided that the space is within 10 ft. of a
creature with an Intelligence score of 3 or higher. The
cauchemange doesn’t need to see the destination.
actions
Touch.
Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft. one
creature.
Hit: 12 (2d8 + 3) psychic damage. If the target
is a creature, it is grappled (escape DC 13).
Drain.
The cauchemange uses its touch attack on a creature
grappled by it. On a hit, in addition to the damage, the
target must succeed on a DC 13 Charisma saving throw
or its hit point maximum is reduced by an amount equal
to the damage taken. This reduction lasts until the target
finishes a long rest. The target dies if this effect reduces its
hit point maximum to 0. If this effect kills a humanoid, a
cauchemange larva emerges from the corpse 8 hours later.
Glamor.
The corporeal cauchemange targets one
humanoid it can see within 30 ft. of it. If the target can
see the cauchemange, the target must succeed on a DC 13
Wisdom saving throw against this magic or be charmed,
seeing the cauchemange as something or someone
desirable. The charmed target regards the cauchemange
as a trusted friend to be heeded and protected. The target
isn’t under the cauchemange’s control, but it takes the
cauchemange’s requests and actions in the most favorable
light, it is a willing target for the cauchemange’s touch,
and it becomes a willing host for a cauchemange larva,
which the target also sees as something desirable.
Each time the cauchemange or the cauchemange’s allies
do anything harmful to the target, it can repeat the saving
throw, ending the effect on itself on a success. Otherwise,
the effect lasts 24 hours, or until the cauchemange is
destroyed, is on a different plane of existence than the
target, or takes a bonus action to end the effect.
