===
Vessel Shard
Tiny undead, chaotic evil
Armor Class 15 (natural armor)
Hit Points 81 (18d4 + 36)
Speed 5 ft., fly 30 ft. (hover)
str dex con int wis cha
 5 (–3) 16 (+3) 14 (+2) 17 (+3) 13 (+1) 12 (+1)
Saving Throws
Int +6, Wis +4
Skills
Perception +4
Damage Immunities necrotic, poison, psychic
Damage Resistances
cold, lightning; ; bludgeoning,
piercing, and slashing from nonmagical attacks
Condition Immunities charmed, exhaustion,
frightened, paralyzed, petrified, poisoned, prone
Senses darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 14
Languages understands one national language and
three others but can’t speak, telepathy 60 ft.
Challenge 6 (2,300 XP)
Proficiency Bonus +3
Consume Spirit.
When a creature dies or is destroyed
within 30 feet of the vessel shard, the vessel shard
absorbs part of the departing spiritual energy, regaining
up to 10 hit points but no more than the dead creature’s
hit point maximum.
As a bonus action, the vessel shard chooses one
undead it can see within 30 feet of it. That undead must
succeed on a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw, adding any
benefit it gains against effects that turn undead. On a
failure, the undead loses 10 hit points and is destroyed if
this damage reduces it to 0 hit points. The vessel shard
regains those hit points.
Turn Resistance: The vessel shard has advantage on
saving throws against any effect that turns undead.
Unhallowed Aura.
Unless the vessel shard is
incapacitated, it bolsters undead of its choice within 30 feet
of it (no action required). These undead roll 1d4 and add
that number to any attack roll or saving throw.
Halve the number of hit points a living creature
regains while within 30 feet of the vessel shard. Any
humanoid that dies in that area retains its place in the
initiative order, animating as a zombie at the start of
its next turn, provided enough of its body is intact.
The vessel shard controls this zombie.
actions
Sepulchral Touch
.
Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit,
reach 5 ft., one creature.
Hit: 14 (4d6) necrotic damage,
and the target must succeed on a DC 14 Constitution
saving throw or be restrained until the end of the vessel
shard’s next turn.
Putrefy (Recharge 5–6)
. Each creature of the vessel
shard’s choice within 30 feet of it must make a DC 14
Constitution saving throw. A target that fails takes 14
(4d6) necrotic damage and takes another 3 (1d6) necrotic
damage at the start of each of its turns for 1 minute. If
the initial saving throw succeeds, the target takes only
half the initial necrotic damage and no ongoing damage.
A creature taking the ongoing damage can repeat the
saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the
effect on itself on a success.
Shattered Spirits (1/Day)
. The vessel shard releases
fragments of spirits trapped within it. Each creature of
the vessel shard’s choice within 30 feet of it must make a
DC 14 Wisdom saving throw. On a failure, one of these
spirit fragments enters the creature, dealing the target 10
(3d6) necrotic damage, and cursing the creature with a
delusion from the following table or a similar delusion
of the GM’s choice. This damage decreases the target’s
hit point maximum by an amount equal to the necrotic
damage the target takes. The cursed target also can’t
regain hit points.
1d6
Delusion
1
Only I matter. Others are disposable.
2
All other creatures should serve me.
3
Living beings are weak and not to be trusted.
4
No risk is too great for my personal glory.
5
I must never put myself in danger of dying.
6
To survive, I must eat only little creatures that are still alive.
Every 24 hours, the cursed target can repeat the
saving throw, ending the curse on itself on a success.
On a failure, the target’s hit point maximum decreases
by 10 (3d6). If the curse reduces the target’s hit point
maximum to 0, the target dies and rises as a zombie
under the vessel shard’s control. This zombie travels
toward the vessel shard, killing any beings that stand
in its way, stopping only when within 30 feet of the
vessel shard.
Magic can remove this curse, which is also a form
of possession by an undead creature. Therefore, turn
undead can drive the shattered spirit out of one target,
destroying the spirit. If an effect calls for a saving throw,
the shattered spirit has a +4 bonus on the save. Also, the
curse can be removed by keeping the target on hallowed
ground within bright light for 24 hours. But the target is
unwilling to stay and must be detained.
reactions
Arcane Shield (Recharge 6)
. When hit by a melee or
ranged attack or forced to make a Dexterity saving throw,
the vessel shard adds 5 to its AC or saving throw result.
gm advice: A vessel shard might be inconspicuous
at first, hiding its true nature by seeming to be a bit of
treasure from an area infested with undead. Unsuspecting
characters might even carry it back to a populated area
and sell it to a merchant. After a few days, the vessel shard
could devastate that town, building a veritable undead army
because of the characters’ carelessness.
