===
Gnome Vampire (Adult)
Small undead, any evil alignment
Armor Class 17 (natural armor)
Hit Points 142 (19d6 + 76)
Speed 25 ft., climb 25 ft.
str dex con int wis cha
 16 (+3) 18 (+4) 18 (+4) 15 (+2) 14 (+2) 14 (+2)
Saving Throws
Dex +9, Int +7, Wis +7, Cha +7
Skills
Athletics +8, History +7, Nature +7, Perception +7,
Stealth +9
Damage Resistances
necrotic, poison; bludgeoning,
piercing, and slashing from nonmagical attacks
Senses darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 17
Languages the languages known in life
Challenge 13 (10,000 XP)
Proficiency Bonus +5
Legendary Resistance (3/Day).
If the vampire fails a
saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead.
Regeneration.
The vampire regains 20 hit points at
the start of its turn if it has at least 1 hit point and isn’t in
sunlight. If the vampire takes radiant damage, this trait
doesn’t function at the start of the vampire’s next turn.
Speak with Beasts.
The vampire can communicate
with beasts and understand their communication.
Spider Climb.
The vampire can climb difficult
surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without
needing to make an ability check.
Turn Resistance.
The vampire has advantage on
saving throws against any effect that turns undead.
Vampire Weaknesses.
The vampire has the
following flaws: Forbiddance.
The vampire can’t enter a residence
without an invitation from one of the occupants.
Stake to the Heart.
The vampire dies if a piercing weapon
made of wood is driven into its heart while it is incapaci-
tated in its resting place.
Sunlight Hypersensitivity.
The vampire takes 10
radiant damage when it starts its turn in sunlight.
While in sunlight, it has disadvantage on attack rolls
and ability checks.
actions
Multiattack.
The vampire makes three attacks, only
one of which can be a bite.
Claws.
Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.
Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) slashing damage. If the target is a creature,
the vampire can grapple the target (escape DC 16).
Bite.
Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one
creature.
Hit: 11 (2d6 + 4) piercing damage and 14 (4d6)
necrotic damage. The target’s hit point maximum is
reduced by an amount equal to the necrotic damage
taken, and the vampire regains hit points equal to that
amount. This reduction lasts until the target finishes a
long rest. The target dies if this effect reduces its hit point
maximum to 0. A humanoid slain in this way and then
buried rises the following night as a vampire spawn
under this vampire’s control.
Command Beasts.
The vampire can choose up to three
beasts that can hear or see the vampire and are within 30 feet
of it. Those beasts must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom
saving throw or become charmed by the vampire, seeing
it as a leader to be heeded and protected. They follow
the vampire’s verbal commands and often act in the
vampire’s interest even if left without a command.
Each time the vampire or the vampire’s allies do
anything harmful to a target, it can repeat the saving
throw, ending the effect on itself on a success. Otherwise,
the effect lasts 24 hours or until the vampire dies, is on
a different plane of existence than the target, or takes a
bonus action to end the effect.
Beast Form.
If the vampire isn’t in sunlight, it
polymorphs into a Small or smaller beast, usually with
fangs and claws, or back into its true form. While in beast
form, the vampire can gain a fly or swim speed of 30 feet,
but its other statistics remain the same. If the new form
lacks claws, the vampire can make slam attacks that deal
the same amount of bludgeoning damage. Anything it
wears transforms with it, but nothing it is carrying does.
It reverts to its true form if it dies.
Mist Form.
If the vampire isn’t in sunlight, it polymorphs
into a Small cloud of mist, or back into its true form.
Anything it wears or carries transforms with it. While in
mist form, the vampire can’t take any actions, speak, or
manipulate objects. It is weightless, has a flying speed of 30 ft.,
can hover, and can enter a hostile creature’s space and stop
there. In addition, if air can pass through a space, the mist
can do so without squeezing, but it can’t pass through water.
It has advantage on Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution
saving throws. A vampire in mist form is immune to
nonmagical damage, except damage from sunlight, and
has resistance to damage other than radiant. The vampire
reverts to its true form if it dies.
reactions
Misty Escape.
When it drops to 0 hit points outside
its resting place, the vampire transforms into its Mist
Form instead of falling unconscious. If the vampire can’t
transform, it dies.
While it has 0 hit points in mist form, the vampire dies if
it takes damage three times or radiant damage once. It can’t
willingly revert to its vampire form, and it must reach its
resting place within 2 hours or die. Once in its resting place,
it reverts to its vampire form. It is then paralyzed until it
regains at least 1 hit point. After spending 1 hour in its
resting place with 0 hit points, it regains 1 hit point.
legendary actions
The vampire can take 3 legendary actions, choosing
from the options here. Only one legendary action option
can be used at a time and only at the end of another
creature’s turn. The vampire regains spent legendary
actions at the start of its turn.
Move.
The vampire moves up to its speed without
provoking opportunity attacks.
Claws.
The vampire attacks once with its claws.
