red hag coven
Red hags form covens, although few other hags are will-
ing to work with red hags, and so such a coven is usually
of three red hags. Red hags are more cooperative than
other hags, so their coven can function more cohesively
and efficiently.
Shared Spellcasting.
While all three members of a
hag coven are within 30 feet of one another, they can each
cast the following spells from the wizard’s spell list. For
casting these spells, each hag is a 10th-level spellcaster
that uses Intelligence as her spellcasting ability. The spell
save DC is 11 + the hag’s Intelligence modifier, and the
spell attack bonus is 3 + her Intelligence modifier. The
three hags share the indicated spell slots among them: 1st level (4 slots): charm person, detect magic, identify
2nd level (3 slots): invisibility, misty step, suggestion
3rd level (3 slots): bestow curse, counterspell, nondetection
4th level (3 slots): arcane eye, charm monster
5th level (2 slots): mislead, scrying
Steal Body.
A red hag coven can allow one of its members
to steal a humanoid’s body. The target of this ritual must be
a humanoid one of the hags cursed to be voiceless, and only
the hag who stole that voice can take the body. The ritual
requires the target to be incapacitated or restrained, and
the red hag taking the body is paralyzed during the ritual,
which takes 1 hour to complete.
Any magic that protects the target from possession
prevents the ritual from succeeding. The target can also
make a DC 14 Charisma saving throw, preventing the
ritual’s completion on a success. A successful save also
means the target is immune to the effects of the ritual
for 24 hours.
If the ritual works, the target’s soul departs the body,
the red hag’s body dies, and her soul possesses the target’s
body. The hag has the target’s Strength, Dexterity, and
Constitution, but otherwise, she retains her statistics.
The hag’s new body has three levels of exhaustion when
the ritual ends, and each level can be removed only by a
long rest. Further, until this exhaustion ends, any effect
that ends or prevents possession causes the new body to
become paralyzed for the effect’s duration as the hag’s
mental connection to the body breaks.
Once the exhaustion ends, the hag’s soul and the new
body unite. Over the course of three years and three days,
the new body changes back into the hag’s original form.
The hag still gains the benefit of the body’s age when she
took possession of it.
