===
Toymaker
Medium fey, chaotic evil
Armor Class 16 (natural armor)
Hit Points 150 (20d8 + 60)
Speed 30 ft.
str dex con int wis cha
 18 (+4) 15 (+2) 17 (+3) 11 (+0) 16 (+3) 12 (+1)
Saving Throws
Wis +7
Skills
Perception +7, Sleight of Hand +6, Survival +7
Damage Resistances
cold
Senses darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 17
Languages Sylvan
Challenge 9 (5,000 XP)
Proficiency Bonus +4
Innate Spellcasting.
The toymaker’s spellcasting
ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 15). It can innately cast
the following spells, requiring no material components: At will: enlarge/reduce, knock, mending
2/day: pass without trace
Magic Resistance.
The toymaker has advantage on
saving throws against spells and other magical effects.
Naughty List.
The toymaker knows if a humanoid it
can see has committed a serious crime and whether the
person has been punished for the crime.
Winter Footing.
The toymaker ignores difficult terrain
created by ice or snow.
actions
Multiattack.
The toymaker makes three claw attacks.
Claw.
Melee Weapon Attack
: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.
Hit
: 13 (2d8 + 4) slashing damage. If the target is a Medium or smaller creature, it is grappled (escape DC 16).
The toymaker can grapple only one creature at a time.
Beard Spines (Recharge 5–6).
The toymaker launch-
es spines from its chin in a 30-foot cone. Each creature
in that area must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving
throw, taking 26 (4d12) piercing damage on a failed save,
or half as much damage on a successful one.
Bag of Toys (Recharges after a Toy is Destroyed).
The toymaker reaches into its bag and pulls out one ran-
dom toy (roll 1d4)—1 Bloody Teddy, 2 Box-Bound Jack,
3 Dolly, 4 Marie O’Nett—and tosses the toy into an
unoccupied space within 10 feet. This toy is the toymaker’s
ally, and it takes its turn just after the toymaker. The toy
obeys the toymaker’s verbal commands (no action for
the toymaker). If issued no commands, the toy attacks a
creature that isn’t the toy’s ally.
reactions
Bag.
If a creature grappled by the toymaker fails to
escape, the creature must succeed on its choice of a DC 16
Strength or Dexterity saving throw or the grapple ends,
and the creature is stuffed into the bag the toymaker
carries. While in the bag, the target is blinded and
restrained, and it has total cover against anything that
originates outside the bag.
If the toymaker uses the Bag of Toys action, any
creature inside the bag is released, falling prone in a
space within 5 feet of the toymaker. The same result
occurs if the bag takes 25 damage or more on a single
turn from a creature inside it. In this case, the toymaker
can’t use its Bag of Toys action until the bag is repaired.
If the toymaker dies, a creature is no longer restrained
in the bag and can escape from it by using 10 feet of
movement, exiting prone.
proficiency with leatherworker’s tools can apply fresh oils
produced by someone who has proficiency with alchemist’s
supplies, using materials worth 100 gp. Someone must
also cast
remove curse
on the bag. The process takes 8 hours,
and the leatherworker and alchemist must succeed on a
DC 13 Intelligence check with their tools. If
remove curse
isn’t cast on the bag, or the alchemist’s check fails, the
bag can, if the GM chooses, become a
bag of devouring
.
