===
Chiropteran Behemoth
Huge monstrosity, neutral evil
Armor Class 19 (natural armor)
Hit Points 287 (25d12+ 125)
Speed 40 ft., fly 120 ft.
str dex con int wis cha
	22	(+6)	20	(+5)	20	(+5)	5	(–3)	20	(+5)	7	(–2)
Skills
Perception +11, Stealth +11
Condition Immunities blinded, charmed, frightened
Senses truesight 120 ft., passive Perception 21
Languages understands one language but can’t speak
Challenge 20 (25,000 XP)
Proficiency Bonus +6
Darkness Aura.
The chiropteran behemoth can use
a bonus action to create darkness in a 40-foot radius centered
on itself. This darkness moves with the behemoth. A
creature with darkvision can’t see through this magical
darkness, and nonmagical light can’t illuminate it.
A light-producing spell of 2nd level or lower is dispelled
if its area overlaps the darkness’s area. This darkness
lasts until the start of the behemoth’s next turn or until
the behemoth dies.
Flyby.
The chiropteran behemoth doesn’t provoke
opportunity attacks when it flies out of an enemy’s reach.
Regeneration.
The chiropteran behemoth regains 20 hit
points at the start of its turn. If the behemoth is exposed
to an
undoing elixir
, this trait doesn’t function at the start
of the behemoth’s next turn. The behemoth dies only if it
starts its turn with 0 hit points and doesn’t regenerate.
Keen Hearing.
The chiropteran behemoth has advantage
on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing.
Legendary Resistance (3/Day).
If the chiropteran behe-
moth fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead.
Magic Resistance.
The chiropteran behemoth has
advantage on saving throws against spells and other
magical effects.
Potent Weapons.
The chiropteran behemoth’s weapon
attacks are magical and they ignore any resistance to their
damage types.
Swoop.
If the chiropteran behemoth flies at least 20 feet
straight toward a creature and then hits it with a claw
attack on the same turn, that target must succeed on a
DC 20 Strength saving throw or fall prone.
actions
Multiattack.
The chiropteran behemoth makes a bite
attack and two claw attacks.
Bite.
Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.
Hit: 33 (6d8 + 6) piercing damage. If the chiropteran
behemoth has advantage on the attack roll against a creature,
that target takes an extra 17 (5d6) necrotic damage. The
target’s hit point maximum is reduced by an amount
equal to the necrotic damage taken. This reduction lasts
until the target finishes a long rest. The target dies if this
effect reduces its hit point maximum to 0.
Claw.
Melee Weapon Attack: +12 to hit, reach 10 ft.,
one target.
Hit: 20 (4d6 + 6) slashing damage. If the
chiropteran behemoth scores a critical hit against a
target, the target takes 48 (12d6 + 6) slashing damage.
If a creature dies due to damage from such a critical hit,
it’s head or another vital body part is severed or destroyed.
Shriek (Recharge 6).
The chiropteran behemoth emits
a shriek in a 60-foot cone. Each creature in that area must
succeed on a DC 19 Intelligence saving throw or take 45
(7d12) psychic damage and be paralyzed for 1 minute.
A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each
of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.
legendary actions
The chiropteran behemoth can take 3 legendary actions,
choosing from the options here. Only one legendary
action option can be used at a time and only at the end
of another creature’s turn. The behemoth regains spent
legendary actions at the start of its turn.
Detect.
The chiropteran behemoth makes a Wisdom
(Perception) check.
Claw.
The chiropteran behemoth makes a claw attack.
Swoop (Costs 2 Actions).
The chiropteran behemoth
moves up to half its speed and makes a claw attack.
Wing Buffet (Costs 2 Actions).
The chiropteran
behemoth beats its wings. Each creature within 15 feet
of the behemoth must succeed on a DC 20 Strength
saving throw or take 20 (4d6 + 6) bludgeoning damage
and be pushed up to 10 feet away from the behemoth. If
the save fails by 5 or more, the creature also falls prone.
The behemoth can then fly up to half its flying speed.
