===
Leeching Willow
Huge aberration, chaotic evil
Armor Class 15 (natural armor)
Hit Points 232 (15d12 +135)
Speed 5 ft.
str dex con int wis cha
 23 (+6) 4 (-3) 28 (+9) 22 (+6) 12 (+1) 12 (+1)
Skills
Arcana +10, History +10, Insight +5, Nature +10
Damage Vulnerabilities
fire
Damage Resistances
bludgeoning, piercing, psychic
Condition Immunities charmed, exhaustion
Senses passive Perception 11
Languages understands Deep Speech and all languages
those infected by it knew but it cannot speak
Challenge 12 (8,400 XP)
Proficiency Bonus +4
Bell Weakness
. The leeching willow cannot maintain
its camouflage when bells are ringing. A bell rung close
to the tree forces it to uproot and disrups the functioning
of its psychic spores. A strong bell rung kills the spores.
False Appearance
. While the leeching willow remains
motionless, it is indistinguishable from a normal tree.
Innate Spells
. The leeching willow’s spellcasting ability
is Intelligence (spell save DC 18) The willow can cast the
following spells, requiring no material components: At will: blur, confusion, modify memory
3/day: dream
Leeching Spores
. The leeching willow naturally
releases spores from its body that infect the air within
1,000 feet of it. Creatures that breathe in this polluted air
must succeed on a DC 18 Charisma saving throw or be
infected with Memory Feeder.
Memory Feeder
. The leeching willow releases spores
that changes memories of those infected. It then adds in
memories beneficial to the leeching willow.
The leeching willow can feed off of the vigor from those
infected by its spores, gaining sustenance and succor from
them. Those infected by the spores gain minimal rest from
sleep, and obtain a point of exhaustion every week until the
individual reaches 4 points of exhaustion. These points of
exhaustion will not go away from long rests for as long as
the spores are within the body.
Siege Monster
. The leeching willow deals double
damage to objects and structures.
actions
Multiattack
. The leeching willow can make 3 attacks
between any combination of slam, rock or psychic spike. The
Willow cannot use psychic spike more than once per turn.
Slam
.
Melee Weapon Attack
: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.
Hit
: 16 (3d6 +6) bludgeoning damage Rock
.
Ranged Weapon Attack
: +10 to hit, range 60/180 ft., one target.
Hit
: 28 (4d10 +6) bludgeoning damage Psychic Spike
. The leeching willow can target a single
creature with leeching spores inside of it. That creature
must succeed on a DC 18 Intelligence saving throw or take
27 (5d10) psychic damage, and it can’t take a reaction until
the end of its next turn. Moreover, on its next turn, it must
choose whether it gets a move, an action, or a bonus action;
it only gets one of the three. On a successful save, the
target takes half damage and suffers none of the spell’s
other effects.
Psychic Slam (1/Day)
. The leeching willow can ignite
all of its spores inside of creatures within 1000 feet of
it. The creatures must succeed on a DC 18 Intelligence
saving throw or take 45 (13d6) psychic damage and can’t
take a reaction until the end of its next turn. Moreover,
on its next turn, it must choose whether it gets a move,
an action, or a bonus action; it only gets one of the three.
On a successful save, the target takes half damage and
suffers none of the spell’s other effects.
After the psychic slam, all the spores within 1,000 feet
of the leeching willow die. Any creature who dies as a
result of the psychic slam have their heads (if they have
one) explode.
