84
G
rim
 H
ollow
m
onster
 G
rimoire
D
Disavowed
“Don’t go to the temple. Something sinister 
has claimed it. Seek shelter elsewhere.”
Fallen Celestials.
 When the gods fell, their agents 
struggled with how to go on. Most served the Arch 
Seraphs, who claimed their fallen god’s mantle. Others 
found a different path. Either by choice or through an 
Arch Daemon’s corruption, these celestials embraced 
evil. Such fallen celestials are known as disavowed.
Avarice Seraphs.
 Many of the god Jezra’s seraphs 
fell victim to Gorodyn’s greed-filled words and joined 
the forces of the Arch Daemon of Avarice, becoming 
avarice seraphs. These beings still resemble the ideal of 
a glorious, winged angel. However, an avarice seraph’s 
wings are black with silver-tipped feathers. Its eyes are 
also black, dripping with oily tears. The seraph has two 
faces on opposite sides of its head. One face smiles while 
the other frowns. The seraph rotates its head, displaying 
the face that suits its situation.
Gluttony Seraphs.
 Arch Daemon Sitri’s temptations 
seduced seraphs who became gluttony seraphs, who 
now help further the Tempter’s plans. Seeing their gods 
fall made these celestials recognize the futility of their 
previous ideals. Such seraphs have given in to their 
desires, particularly gastronomic ones, becoming giant 
froglike beings. Stunted wings sprout from a gluttony 
seraph’s rotund form, allowing it awkward flight. 
A gluttony seraph has an enormous mouth, and the 
largest of them can swallow other creatures.
salvage
An avarice seraph’s metal-tipped feathers can be sold. 
Those of the lesser seraph are worth 250 gp, while those 
of the seraph are worth 1,000 gp.
Someone who has proficiency with alchemist’s supplies 
can melt the metal on the feathers of an avarice seraph 
and use some feathers as fletching to make one arrow of 
celestial slaying for a lesser seraph, or four such arrows 
from the seraph. Making one arrow takes 7 days of work, 
reagents worth 1,000 gp, and a successful DC 17 Intelligence 
or Wisdom check.
The saliva of a gluttony seraph functions as antitoxin—
three doses can be collected from a lesser seraph, while 
ten can be gathered from a seraph. Someone who has 
proficiency with alchemist’s supplies or an herbalism 
kit can mix two doses of this saliva with reagents worth 
50 gp and brew the mixture for 4 hours. The resulting 
elixir affects the imbiber as a 
protection from poison
 spell, 
curing a random poison in the drinker’s system.
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (History):
 The disavowed are 
seraphs fallen to evil. Each still retains a measure of its 
celestial power.
DC 15 Intelligence (Religion):
 From their celestial 
heritage, disavowed retain magic resistance and resistance 
to nonmagical attacks, as well as immunity to being 
charmed, exhausted, and frightened. Even in a fallen 
state, the seraph imparts magic and radiant damage to its 
attacks. Gluttony seraphs are also immune to poison.
DC 20 Intelligence (Arcana):
 Avarice seraphs can 
rouse the greed in any creature. Huge gluttony seraphs 
can swallow and digest people, although their lesser 
kin can’t.
