287
G
rim
 H
ollow
m
onster
 G
rimoire
R
Returned
“Those taken by the fey come back changed. 
Rarely for the better.”
Escaped Fey Captives.
 Powerful fey abduct mortals, 
dragging them into the fey realm to serve as entertainers, 
servants, or adopted family. Most mortals taken this way 
are never heard from again, but a rare few manage to 
escape the clutches of their fairy kidnappers and find 
their way back. These changed people, the returned, 
come back to a life that has moved on without them.
The returned cope with their trauma in many ways. 
Some wage a personal war against the fey, while others 
struggle to take back the life stolen from them. In either 
case, the returned passionately pursue their goals and 
recruit others to help.
Irreversible Changes.
 Mortals who spend extensive 
time in the fey realms change irreversibly. The most 
obvious signs are physical or cosmetic, such as iridescent 
irises or footsteps that sound like distant thunder, but the 
alterations run deeper. Magic of the fey realms seeps into 
the soul of a returned, whether they want it or not. Many 
returned enjoy these magical powers. Others limit their 
use of fey magic, afraid they might attract the attention 
of their abductors. A few turn their eldritch skills to 
revenge, including imparting a psychic resonance that 
allows weapons to harm the body and mind.
Mutable Form.
 The fear returned have about using 
magic has some foundation in fact. Each time a returned 
casts a spell, a cosmetic trait, such as eye color or the 
sound of the voice, changes randomly and permanently.
salvage
The bones, hair, and sinew of a returned retain magic 
antithetical to the fey. Someone who has proficiency 
with leatherworker’s tools or tinker’s tools can spend 
3 days working with these materials, along with reagents 
an alchemist recommends worth 250 gp. If the artisan 
succeeds on a DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana) check, they 
can build 
dimensional shackles
 that work only on the fey.
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (Arcana):
 Those abducted by the 
fey and later escape back to the mortal world are known 
as the returned. Time in the fey realms makes such people 
prone to cosmetic changes and able to use fey magic.
DC 15 Intelligence (History):
 An old story tells of a 
prince who was stolen by the fey only to fight his way 
back to his kingdom. After his return, he went decades 
without cutting his hair. When he died an old king, his 
daughter cut his hair and used it to bind the fey who 
long ago kidnapped her father.
