Dream Spirits
“A dream can be a beautiful thing, until you can’t escape it.”
Dream Born.
 Dream spirits are manifestations of 
memories released when a sentient creature dies thinking 
of a specific moment in their life. Powerful arcane magic 
can also pull these spirits from a creature. Living dreams 
are positive or emotionally neutral memories. Conversely, 
a living nightmare is malevolent, so it harms those around 
it. Wicked mages or other hateful, potent beings transform 
living dreams into living nightmares through rituals.
Psychic Feeding.
 Living dreams are warm, blue motes 
of swirling light that attract the curious and naïve. They 
charm creatures into a stupor, feeding off the creatures’ 
psychic energy as the charmed beings experience parts 
of the dream.
Living nightmares are hot, red motes that act aggressively. 
They create fear to maximize their brutal psychic assaults. 
These attacks and powers give the victims glimpses of 
nightmares as the evil dream spirit feeds on their fear.
Gathering Chaos.
When several dream spirits come 
together in an area, they fuse into jumbled memories and 
terrifying projections. This enormous amalgam, called a 
katoche, is a roiling cloud of coruscating colors, flickering 
with psychic lightning. The confusion of their unnatural 
joining drives the melded spirits to destructive ends.
Undead Nature.
A dream spirit doesn’t require air, 
food, drink, or sleep.
salvage
Dream spirits can be valuable, capturing important infor-
mation about a person or a moment from the past. Details 
contained within a dream spirit might provide knowledge, 
like the location of an important artifact or the combination 
to a locked vault. Those who succumb to a dream spirit’s 
spells or attacks see snippets of such information. When 
the dream spirit is destroyed, each creature within 60 feet 
of it can attempt a DC 15 Wisdom (Insight) check to learn 
details of the dream or nightmare’s contents.
When a katoche separates, it leaves behind dream- 
infused ectoplasm. Someone who has proficiency with 
alchemist’s supplies can use this goo and other materials 
worth 100 gp to make 
oil of etherealness
. The process 
requires 2 days of work and a successful DC 15  
Intelligence (Arcana) check.
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (History):
 Dream spirits are psychic 
fragments given form by circumstances or magic. They are 
incorporeal and, therefore, hard to capture or destroy.
DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana):
 Living dreams use 
charm illusion to pacify other beings, while nightmares 
rely on fear.
DC 20 Intelligence (Arcana):
 Dream spirits can fuse 
and become a confused swirl called katoches. They 
overwhelm the senses with confusing visions and break 
into separate dream spirits when diminished in power.
