V
Vessel Shard
This ornate vessel gives off cold menace as it 
hovers in the air among shambling corpses.
Failed Lichdom
. Many necromancers dream of tran-
scending death and entering lichdom, but only a handful 
attempt the process. Fewer still succeed. Of the failures, a tiny 
percentage become vessel shards, incomplete, damaged 
souls trapped within a lich’s soul vessel.
No Body, Many Bodies
. Unlike a complete lich, a 
vessel shard does not retain control of its original body. 
The entirety of its being is housed within the failure of a 
soul vessel. The vessel shard can see, hear, and smell out 
of this vessel, and it can fly for movement. But it has no 
corporeality beyond the confines of this vessel.
However, a vessel shard remains a fearsome commander 
of lesser undead, able to summon and bend them to its 
will. A vessel shard is rarely found without a small 
detachment of zombies, skeletons, ghouls, or the like 
serving it. A poetic student of undeath might consider 
these creatures to be the vessel shard’s bodies, in a 
certain regard.
A Hungry Soul
. Most people would agree that anyone 
who wishes to enter lichdom must be maladjusted That 
said, magical mishaps that tear the would-be lich’s soul 
into pieces and imprisons them in a damaged soul vessel 
create a form of obsession. Unlike liches, who can exist 
in relative peace and isolation for centuries, vessel 
shards are driven to kill and then consume the souls of 
living things.
Undead Nature
. The vessel shard is undead; it 
requires no air, sleep, food, or drink.
salvage
If the essence of a defeated vessel shard is dissolved in a 
vial of holy water, the water transforms into an elixir that 
can be poured into a corpse’s mouth, acting as a 
speak 
with dead
 spell that requires no other components. The 
corpse understands anything asked of it in any language, 
and the corpse’s responses can be understood by any 
who can hear it.
Also, a vessel shard usually contains a jewel that is 
flawed but still worth at least 50 gp.
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (Religion or Arcana)
: A vessel 
shard bolsters undead near it, making them better at 
fighting and more resistant.
DC 15 Intelligence (Religion or Arcana)
: A vessel 
shard can expel fragments of spirits to possess nearby 
victims. (Those who know this fact also know how to 
treat the cursed possession.)
DC 20 Intelligence (Religion or Arcana)
: A vessel 
shard can raise undead by various means. It can also 
consume the power of death to regain vitality.
