110
G
rim
 H
ollow
m
onster
 G
rimoire
E
Epachrach
“Beware the epachrach, an enormous fey tusker. 
They make giant boars seem friendly and warm.”
Fey Fury.
 An epachrach is a creature of fey fury and 
might. Empowered by the strength of ancient oaks, it 
crashes through the forest, seeking those who defile 
places of primal power. It can abruptly manifest, like 
a sudden storm of woody skin and twisting tusks, 
bringing pain and death.
Primal Guardian.
 Epachrachs seem like forces of 
uncontrolled rage, but their wrath has purpose. Each 
epachrach, or a herd of such creatures, guards a sacred 
natural place. Powerful druids bind some to protect 
sacred groves from enemies. Other epachrachs defend 
a place where primal forces naturally gather. Whatever 
the nature of this spot, the epachrachs guard it with 
their lives.
salvage
The leaves and bark that form an epachrach’s skin are 
as durable as steel but much lighter and more flexible, 
making them ideal for creating scale mail. Someone who 
has proficiency with smith’s tools or woodcarver’s tools 
can use the hide to craft scale mail that allows a wearer a 
maximum Dexterity bonus to AC of +3 and doesn’t cause 
the wearer to have disadvantage on Dexterity (Stealth) 
checks. This armor takes 10 days to make, requires other 
materials worth 250 gp, and weighs 25 pounds.
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (Nature):
 This plantlike boar is 
really a fey creature and guardian of places of primal 
power. Its woody hide is vulnerable to fire and resistant 
to bludgeoning and piercing attacks.
DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana):
 Legends say that 
epachrachs can disappear suddenly or appear from 
nowhere. The truth is that they can teleport through 
areas of living plants.
DC 15 Intelligence (History):
 Several tales tell of 
those who stumble into an area epachrachs watch over. 
Leaving the guarded area or proving no harmful intent 
saved wily heroes in those stories.
GM Advice:
 In general, monsters that knock characters 
prone are best paired with monsters that perform melee 
rather than ranged attacks, since ranged attacks against 
prone targets are made with disadvantage.
Creating encounter areas where prone creatures are 
grabbed by creeping vines and restrained until they escape 
is a great way to increase the challenge of an encounter 
with epachrachs. This also gives the epachrachs plenty of 
opportunities to use their Plant Stride ability.
