14
G
rim
 H
ollow
m
onster
 G
rimoire
A
Arcane Anomalies
“The disheveled interior of the wizard’s workshop hints 
at arcane experiments gone wrong. Remnants of arcane 
components litter the room. And now they’re moving!”
Careless Magic
. The Arcanist Inquisition contends that 
all magic is dangerous, not just that wielded by demons 
and nefarious sorcerers. Their blanket denunciation of all 
mages might be harsh, but their zealous belief in the perils 
of magic isn’t unfounded. Even a well-meaning mage can 
invite catastrophe with a slip of the tongue, a misaligned 
gesture, or momentary lapse in concentration.
Arcane anomalies, as some mages euphemistically 
call them, are one such product of careless magic. Ritual 
objects used in particularly powerful spells, when not 
disposed of properly, can gain a malevolent sentience. 
Many an apprentice has learned the hard way that “Go 
wash up!” is not only a chore, but an essential safety 
practice. As one might imagine, water is a particular 
weakness of all arcane anomalies.
Tallow Toad
. Candles for ritual purposes are often 
made of strange waxes mixed with rare oils and herbs. 
Once a ritual is complete, unless ground up or melted 
down, these candles can transform into toad-like 
lumps of wax that wield tongues of flame and have an 
unquenchable desire to burn.
Chalk Chatterling
. Chalk pentagrams and runes must 
be scrubbed after use, for even faint traces can birth a 
chalk chatterling, a tiny whirlwind of colored chalk dust 
that incessantly squeals the sounds its original markings 
were meant to signify.
Inkfester
. Woe to any wizard who fails to pay attention 
to the expiration of their magical inks. If left untreated, 
old ink coalesces into bizarre two-dimensional creatures 
that masquerade as graffiti and psychically hurt victims 
through disturbing glyphs and imagery. These creatures 
can detach from walls, transforming into clouds of liquid 
ink to dissolve and drown unwary victims.
salvage
The arcane components that birthed an anomaly are 
irrevocably ruined. However, a defeated anomaly might 
yield a small quantity of useful material.
A tallow toad leaves behind a lump of warming wax. 
One lump can be rubbed onto a single small or medium 
creature’s skin to provide cold resistance for 1 hour.
Dust collected from a chalk chatterling can be 
incorporated into a ritual spell to halve its casting time. 
The caster uses some of the magic imbued in the chalk.
The residue an inkfester leaves behind can be turned 
into a tarry liquid that mimics the effect of a 
darkness
 spell 
but requires no concentration. The brewer of this substance 
must have proficiency with alchemist’s supplies and 
succeed on a DC 15 Intelligence check with 1 hour of 
brewing. Success produces a vial of the tar, which acti-
vates upon exposure to air. Failure by 5 or more causes an 
effect mimicking an inkfester’s 
death burst
 ability.
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (Arcana)
: Arcane anomalies are 
constructs immune to poison and being charmed.
DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana)
: The tallow toad can spit 
hot wax that must be removed, or it continues to blister 
skin. Coming too close to a chalk chatterling can make 
spellcasting difficult. An inkfester can psychically assault 
the mind in one form or, in another, surround and consume 
victims. All these anomalies explode when destroyed.
DC 20 Intelligence (Arcana)
: Immersing any arcane 
anomaly in water hurts it. Wizards frequently scrub their 
laboratories clean to prevent these beings from emerging.
