294
G
rim
 H
ollow
m
onster
 G
rimoire
S
Scream Thief
“It appeared from the darkness: a faceless wraith whose 
outstretched arms sought purchase on my mortal frame. In 
desperation, I cried to my companions for aid, but my voice was 
silent. When it stole my words, I knew my doom was at hand.”
Retribution
. A scream thief springs forth when a human 
dies while stopping another creature from fulfilling an im-
portant goal. The phantom is cursed to an eternal undeath 
of having memories lie torturously out of reach, but the 
weight of their desire to remember their lives incites vio-
lence against mortals who intrude on their immortal prison.
Cursed Locations. 
The site of their death is tainted 
with hate and regret. Psychic fragments, souls of the 
creatures the scream thief has killed, linger nearby, 
taunting the spirit with nonsensical murmurings.
Spiritual Victims
. When a scream thief kills an intel-
ligent creature, tortured fragments of its spirit linger 
as vaporous orbs. The touch of these haunting forms 
withers the flesh, potentially adding another death to a 
cursed location.
Uncanny Voices
. Psychic fragments call to the living. 
They yearn to join their fractured essence with a complete 
soul. They utter nonsensical words or phrases once 
spoken in life.
Maddening Gatherings. 
When a scream thief lingers 
in one location, the fragments of the many spirits it has 
killed can swarm together, creating a frightening ghostly 
orb. A mind-numbing chattering of the individual 
fragments can confound the unwary.
salvage
The bones of a mortal transformed into a scream thief 
remain imbued with its undead aura. A skilled magic item 
crafter using 200 gp of magical regents, and spending at 
least 5 days of effort, can create a 
wand of silence
 (see Chapter 
4) if they succeed on a DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana) check.
A spellcaster can capture a psychic fragment’s essence 
before it dissipates after death. The spellcaster requires 
a container worth at least 100 gp. Anyone who succeeds 
on a DC 13 Intelligence (Arcana) check can capture a 
portion of the defeated psychic fragment. The container 
can store up to 10 hit die worth of undead essence for 
8 hours before they dissipate.
As an action, a container holding this spiritual essence 
can be thrown up to 20 feet, shattering on impact. All 
creatures within 5 feet of the broken container must 
make a DC 12 Constitution saving throw. A failed saving 
throw results in 1d4 necrotic damage per hit die of essence 
stored, while a success deals half as much damage.
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (Religion)
: The scream thief is 
immune to necrotic and poison. The incorporeal nature 
of psychic fragments makes them resistant to non-
magical weapons.
DC 15 Intelligence (Religion)
: The touch of a scream 
thief drains life that magic cannot heal; only time and 
rest can.
A scream thief remains trapped in its place of death, 
often accompanied by spirit fragments of the creatures it 
has killed.
