394
G
rim
 H
ollow
m
onster
 G
rimoire
Elf Vampire
“She was ancient, tall and gaunt, imperious and fierce. Her 
skin was translucent and slightly luminous with the crimson 
fluid beneath lending it a bizarre, vibrating flush. Her anger 
and sorrow reached from her, sharing the sense of a time before 
my people cut and burned the forest. I wept.”
Fey Horror.
 Vampirism emphasizes fey qualities 
among elves. The elf becomes wispier, more ephemeral 
and haunting. An elf vampire’s fey resistances become 
enhanced to the point that the vampire is hard to turn 
and can’t be rendered unconscious or charmed. The 
vampire enters a trance for a few hours instead of 
sleeping, remaining aware of their surroundings 
during that time.
Fey Majesty.
 Fey ancestry and vampirism combine to 
give an elf vampire influence over the minds of humanoids 
and beasts. Legends of vampire enchantments could 
stem from the powers of elf vampires, who might have 
been the first to suffer this curse. The power of mental 
influence also allows the vampire to share sorrow 
and fear with those the vampire has charmed, or to 
befuddle their minds.
Also, those the elf vampire charms for long periods 
develop an attachment to the vampire, which can grow 
into a macabre affection even when the creature isn’t 
charmed. Tales say ancient elf vampires can charm 
creatures other than humanoids and beasts.
salvage
An elf vampire’s flesh turns to glittering powder when 
the vampire dies. This powder can still be used to make 
the ointment rendered vampire flesh can make. However, 
this dust can also be used as a material component for 
any enchantment spell or spell that deals necrotic damage. 
If a spellcaster uses the dust in this way, the spell save 
DC for the spell increases by 2. If the spell requires an 
attack roll, the caster scores a critical hit on a roll of 
19 or 20, and any damage die for necrotic damage that 
rolls a 1 is treated as a 2. One vampire produces enough 
dust for two uses, plus one use per age category of the 
vampire beyond spawn.
lore
DC 15 Intelligence (History):
 Elf vampires don’t 
sleep, so they are aware all the time. And they can’t be 
charmed or knocked unconscious.
DC 15 Intelligence (Religion):
 Fey ancestry combines 
with vampirism to render elf vampires resistant to effects 
that turn undead.
DC 20 Intelligence (Arcana):
 Elf vampires can 
manipulate the minds of beasts and people. Legend 
says that ancient elf vampires can sway the minds of 
other creatures.
