Blightscale Dragon
“Dragons are rare, so seeing one is terrifying. Seeing one 
rotting before your eyes as it approaches? Mind-shattering!”
Cursed Dragon
. The curse of foul blight is potent 
necromancy when leveled against a hated foe. Some 
foolish wizard modified the curse of foul blight to affect 
a dragon who had wronged them, using a single scale 
from the hated dragon. What this wizard unleashed was 
a variant of the curse of foul blight known as blightscale, 
accursed magic that twists and warps a majestic dragon 
into a loathsome, terrifying beast.
Humanoids infected with the curse of foul blight 
become lone wanderers, but the lairing instinct of the 
blightscale dragon remains true. The dragon no longer 
bothers to amass wealth or hunt. It makes forays from its 
living tomb to assuage its suffering by lashing out against 
any who travel nearby.
Physical Changes
. A blightscale dragon’s breath 
weapon is a stinking exhalation of insects and necrotic 
bile. The dragon’s armorlike scales split and encrust with 
thick pus that hardens to the consistency of stone. Fangs 
crack and rot at the gums, just as deadly but crawling 
with disease and stained with ichor.
salvage
Someone who has proficiency with smith’s tools or 
leatherworker’s tools can fashion the scales of an adult or 
ancient blightscale dragon into 
dragon scale mail
. Doing 
so takes 10 days and other materials worth 5,000 gp. The 
armor offers no protection against Frightful Presence but 
grants resistance to necrotic damage and poison damage.
A claw from a young or older blightscale dragon can 
be fashioned into a 
dagger of venom
. Doing so requires 
proficiency with smith’s tools or woodcarver’s tools, 5 
days of work, and other materials worth 1,000 gp.
If the two eye-fangs of an adult or ancient blightscale 
dragon are treated with a 
remove curse
 spell and buried 
together in soil consecrated with a 
hallow
 spell, they grow 
into a blight drake that emerges from the earth in 3 days. 
This drake bonds with the first creature to feed it.
Blood and other fluids of a blightscale dragon can be 
harvested and used to offset the shadowsteel component 
when bestowing a curse of foul blight. A wyrmling is 
worth 250 gp, a young dragon 750 gp, an adult 1,500 gp, 
and an ancient dragon 3,000 gp.
lore
DC 15 Wisdom (History):
 A blightscale dragon is a 
dragon that has been subjected to a powerful curse.
DC 15 Wisdom (Medicine):
 A blightscale dragon 
is immune to necrotic damage and poison. Its breath 
weapon is a swarm of poisonous insects and gas.
DC 20 Intelligence (Arcana):
 The curse on the 
blightscale dragon makes it exude a toxic, cursed gas 
when it dies, possibly passing on a portion of the curse.
