Bugbears
“Tormach subverted bugbears with a disease that 
makes them little more than killing machines.”
Tormach’s Rage.
 The bugbears of Etharis weren’t 
always ferocious and violent. When the Arch Daemons 
appeared in the world, Tormach believed he could make 
minions of the goblinoids. Bugbear warriors forcefully 
opposed his efforts to subvert goblin tribes to his will. 
Tormach commanded his servants to craft a disease that 
would render defiant bugbears into vicious drones, a 
grim task those minions completed with great success. 
Tormach’s Rage, as the disease has come to be known, 
spread quickly. Most bugbears of Etharis are now 
victims of this mind-altering plague.
The disease causes a bugbear to become more resilient 
while increasing muscle mass and capacity for aggression. 
Bugbears infected with Tormach’s Rage experience a 
powerful, instinctive urge to spread their illness. Infected 
bugbears have enhanced olfactory senses that allow them 
to smell whether a creature carries Tormach’s Rage. When 
they discover a bugbear without the disease, they fly into 
a frenzy. The sickness is virulent enough that even if a 
bugbear survives the fight or kills the infected aggressor, 
it’s unlikely to do so without contracting Tormach’s Rage.
Staged Changes.
 Rage-infected bugbears have only 
recently gotten the disease. A bugbear who contracts 
Tormach’s Rage can’t expect to live long as the illness 
compels the victim to acts of aggression that ultimately 
end in the bugbear’s destruction. The infection lasts until 
death, although magic and rare herbal knowledge can 
counteract it.
Very rarely, an infected bugbear lives long enough 
that Tormach’s Rage exhibits advanced symptoms. At 
this stage, the disease further accentuates the bugbear’s 
muscular system, granting increased strength and speed. 
Bugbears who live this long have little impulse control 
and ability to reason.
salvage
The viscera of a bugbear infected with Tormach’s Rage can 
be used as a vector or as a curative. To create an infectious 
agent, someone who has proficiency with an herbalism kit 
or a poisoner’s kit must use the viscera and other materials 
worth 25 gp. Creating the vector takes 4 hours of work and 
requires a successful DC 13 Intelligence or Wisdom check. 
A bugbear exposed to the vector through a wound or by 
consuming it must save against Tormach’s Rage as if bitten 
by a rage-infected bugbear.
Making the curative requires the same proficiency, 
reagents worth 50 gp, 8 hours of work, and a successful 
DC 15 Wisdom (Medicine)
check. A bugbear exposed 
to the curative through a wound or by consuming it can 
reattempt the saving throw against Tormach’s Rage. If 
the save succeeds, the disease is cured. Its effects end in a 
matter of minutes.
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (History or Religion):
 Bugbears 
once fought against the Arch Daemon Tormach’s efforts 
to dominate goblinoids. He concocted a disease to thwart 
their efforts and those of any who would join them.
DC 10 Wisdom (Medicine):
 Tormach’s Rage grants 
its infected superior resilience and strength but causes 
drastic, violent personality changes.
DC 15 Wisdom (Medicine):
 Combined with herbal 
reagents, the viscera of a deceased bugbear infected with 
Tormach’s Rage can be used to spread the disease or 
create a cure.
