194
G
rim
 H
ollow
m
onster
 G
rimoire
L
Living Crucible
“I’ve got lotions, potions, dusts, draughts, tinctures, and even a 
balm or two. What do you need? I’ve tested them all myself!”
Brewing Advantage. 
Most warriors spend their entire 
lives perfecting their skill with their weapons, but a few 
lack the focus, skill, dedication, or patience for such a 
path. These warriors seek any edge over their foes, no 
matter the cost. Trickery or magic can provide that edge. 
Some turn to alchemy.
Chemical Augmentation.
 Potions are not a strange 
sight on the battlefield. Adventurers rarely leave the safety 
of town without at least a few healing potions, and some of 
the more exotic ones if they can afford it. Gaining the title of 
“Living Crucible” is a different matter. These warriors use 
alchemy to alter their own bodies in search of greater battle 
prowess. While this takes a toll on them in the long run, 
it also allows them to ingest unusual combinations of 
alchemical reagents for a quick boost in combat.
salvage
When looting a drug-crazed warrior, there is the possibility 
of finding 1d4 chemical compounds, like the ones they 
use in battle. Anyone consuming one of these compounds 
must make a DC 13 Constitution save or be poisoned for 
1 minute. On a natural 1 on the save, the creature dies. 
After 1 day, the compounds become inert and lose all 
special properties.
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (History):
 Certain warriors take 
up alchemy to supplement their fighting skills with 
potent alchemical concoctions. They’re often festooned 
in bandoliers of potions and vials, an array that lets them 
react to different situations with different potions.
DC 15 Intelligence (Nature):
 Beyond mere potion 
users, the warriors known as “Living Crucibles” alter 
their own physiology to better absorb alchemical 
reagents. Much like acclimating to a poison, they 
repeatedly subject themselves to extreme chemical 
compounds until their bodies adapt to the strain.
DC 20 Intelligence (Arcana): 
The alchemical com-
pounds used by Living Crucibles are toxic to anyone else. 
It is only through their unique physiologies that such 
poisons offer any benefit. These raw substances must be 
consumed within a day or they lose their efficacy.
GM Advice:
 Other humanoid creatures who rely on melee attacks 
might be turned into living crucibles, to offer a wider array of choices 
for enemies to put in front of characters. Make the humanoid resistant 
or immune to poison, and then provide them with one of more of the 
bonuses from Battle Draught.
Living crucibles might also be so besotted with volatile chemicals that 
interactions with extra heat, electricity, acid, or other agents could cause 
them to explode, with a devastating effect for anyone near them.
