Ogre of the Vale
“So many people with missing limbs in this area! 
Farming accidents, they say. I’m planning to speak to the 
Baron about it later. But I’ve been instructed that I must 
only eat corn and grains and drink only milk for two 
weeks before my audience…curious.”
A Hunger for Corruption
. The ogre of the vale is a new-
ly-minted baron who gained his title through long years of 
gruesome warfare, where he also gained a taste for blood… 
literally. None know if desperation or moral rot caused him 
to first eat human flesh, but gorging himself on a cannibal’s 
diet turned a mortal man into an overgrown and brutish 
monster. This petty tyrant now gives himself over to gluttony, 
hedonism, and casual violence, and he takes his harvest from 
his people, casually feasting on them, growing his bloated 
and greasy body from atop a gilded palanquin.
Remote Country
. This monstrous tyrant rules with an 
iron fist in Grey Spine, near the Raevan border. It is a 
war-torn and ravaged land, full of small, isolated baronies 
and cantons, and beset by mountain bandits. Those who rule 
here do so via rough justice and fear, attracting all manner of 
sadistic lackies to enforce their dominion. While this region is 
home to many monsters, the commonfolk fear the monsters 
who rule over them the most.
A Keep of Horrors
. The ogre’s castle is a haven for all 
manner of scum: violent criminals, bloodthirsty soldiers, 
sadists, and blasphemers. His inner circle are cannibals 
on their way to becoming ogres themselves, and vampire 
diplomats are frequent guests of the ogrish baron. Cults to 
Sitri, Malikir, and Tormach abound in his domain. He even 
keeps a barn full of monstrous pigs, known as ogre swine, 
who devour the ogre’s grisly leftovers. The ogre of the vale 
wields his authority with petty vindictiveness and wanton 
cruelty, abusing his power to the fullest and hiding behind 
the pretense of law when it suits him all while his minions 
keep an eye out for promising prey among the peasants.
salvage
The ogre of the vale’s spleen and gall bladder are filled 
with fatty bile, more slippery than oil and more flammable 
than pitch. Someone who collects this bile and succeeds on 
a DC 10 Intelligence (Nature) check can craft 6 torches that 
burn underwater or in magical darkness. Crafting these 
items takes 4 hours and requires 10 gp of other materials. 
When the bile is used as a component in casting a spell 
that requires a Dexterity saving throw, the DC increases 
by 1. This can be done 4 times with the bile from one 
ogre of the vale.
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (History)
: Life is cruel to the folk 
who live in the western hills and valleys along the Raevo 
and Soma border. Raids and skirmishes are common, 
and the lords and barons of that country cruel and hard.
DC 15 Intelligence (History)
: The baron earned the 
nickname “ogre of the vale” due to his enormous size 
and his enormous capacity for casual violence. Locals 
are rightly terrified of his henchmen kidnapping them 
in the night.
DC 20 Intelligence (History)
: They say that the so-
called “ogre of the vale” regularly eats his commonfolk 
who are freshly butchered in the baron’s own kitchens. 
Rumor is he even feeds the scraps to his overgrown hogs.
