23
G
rim
 H
ollow
m
onster
 G
rimoire
B
The Truth 
of the Great Beast
The Great Beast is not something that has a stat block 
and a set of limited abilities. This is because the Beast is 
as much an idea as a being. Evil. Corruption. Uncaring 
and wanton destruction. The inevitability of annihilation. 
Gods and mortals alike can defeat almost anything if they 
are lucky, skilled, and powerful enough. But they can’t 
outlast the sad truth that all things end. That’s what the 
Beast represents.
That doesn’t mean, however, that the monstrosities 
that the Beast spawns can’t be temporarily defeated and 
cleansed from an area. An aspect of cosmic horror, which 
the Beast represents, is the unknowable vastness of the 
multiverse transcends both our understanding and our 
very senses. The fun of cosmic horror is letting heroes 
win small victories over the evils they can understand, 
with the vague uneasiness that something much more 
dangerous is lurking behind it.
Just as the full nature of the Beast can’t be known, 
its origins are equally veiled in mystery. As a 
representative off all things that horrify and annihilate 
living beings, the Beast was always there. However, its 
current aspect on Etharis can be given a starting point. 
Maybe it was when the gods died. Maybe the Beast 
slipped into Etharis when King Leopold went mad 
and fell to assassins’ blades. Maybe some other event 
triggered this manifestation of woe.
For your campaign, use the Beast as a tool rather than 
a goal. Maybe the Beast’s attention is drawn to powerful 
mortal energy or powerful magic. This allows a game 
master to counterbalance the characters gaining power 
or casting high-level magic. Maybe the Beast’s appear-
ance in an area is tied to some choice the characters 
made. Maybe it shows up as a mechanical counterbal-
ance to using the Beast and Resolve Pools highlighted 
in 
Grim Hollow: The Players Guide
. As a game master in a 
Grim Hollow campaign, you are the Great Beast. Ravage 
the land as you see fit.
Not long after these sightings, strange and horrific 
creatures emerge from the wilds or the city sewers. 
Sometimes these creatures are undead, sometimes 
they’re monstrosities, but they’re always corrupted 
versions of the normal creatures inhabiting the area.
Harbinger of End Times
. While the truth of the 
Beast is unknown—and perhaps unknowable—that has 
not stopped others from using the myths and rumors 
surrounding the Beast for their own purposes. The 
Arcanist Inquisition points to the Beast as a reason 
for their existence and an excuse for their often brutal 
methods. Doomsday cults welcome the Beast as the one to 
bring an end to this tainted world. Even individuals who 
perform calculated crimes cry out at their trials that they’d 
fallen under the sway of the Beast, hoping to play on fear 
and sympathy to earn undeserved mercy.
GM Advice:
 Quote: “I was having a pint at the inn one 
night. This strange lass started asking us questions about 
the time when the Beast passed by the town. We tried to 
tell her what we saw in the wake of the Beast, but she had 
this far-away look in her eyes, like she wasn’t even listening. 
Worse than that, as we got to the gristly parts about the 
animals changing into monsters, or people going mad, she 
got this little smile on her face. Pretty soon she just got up 
and left. I don’t know if she was a sage, an adventurer, or 
just a stranger with an unhealthy obsession.”
