167
G
rim
 H
ollow
m
onster
 G
rimoire
H
Hurrock
“The weapons wielded by the rock-skinned creature grow 
from the ends of its arms, and blood drips from them.”
Rock Cursed
. Dwarf warriors are often thought of 
as tough as stone. But even these stalwart people are 
vulnerable to powerful curses. Dwarves mention such a 
cursed warrior in hushed tones among other dwarves. 
Such a creature, a hurrock, is to be pitied and feared.
When a dwarf is cursed this way, their skin adopts a 
rocklike texture and hue. Their arms twist and harden, 
resembling a weapon and shield. The luxuriant beard 
they cultivated, the pride of any dwarf, becomes like 
metal wire. Most pronounced among these changes, their 
head bulges and distends in a mockery of familial great 
helms, their visage horrifying and unnatural. The mind 
snaps under the strain as their dwarf essence slowly 
leeches out of them.
As a hurrock loses touch with their former life, 
they grow to prefer the safety and solace of the rocky 
depths. A hurrock burrows ever deeper into solid 
rock, occasionally coming across mine shafts and 
underground tributaries. Hurrocks can often be found 
delving alone, but groups can also form, whether they 
sought each other out or were cursed together.
Deep Corruption
. The cursed rock infecting a hur-
rock’s body grows in strength over time, consuming 
more humanoid attributes in exchange for greater ele-
mental affinity. An elder hurrock develops beyond any 
need for food and enters a trance state for four hours in 
lieu of normal sleep.
Eventually, the curse changes an ancient hurrock into 
a creature with only the barest resemblance to a dwarf. 
The hurrock’s weapon arm and shield arm have worn 
salvage
The death of a hurrock causes the cursed stone to crumble 
and fall away as the curse dissipates. The curse hardens 
and polishes some of the victim’s organs into gemstones. 
Normal hurrocks yield gems worth 100 gp, elder hurrocks 
produce gems worth 500 gp, and ancient hurrocks have 
gems worth 1,000 gp. Jewelers and those schooled in Arcana 
can recognize these hurrock stones for what they are with a 
successful DC 15 Intelligence check. Those who recognize 
the gems might be less or more willing to trade for them, 
depending on the buyer’s taste for cursed objects.
lore
DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana)
: Dwarves falling victim 
to a specific curse of the deep transform into monsters 
called hurrocks. Only adamantine or magic weapons are 
fully effective against them. Thunder seriously harms 
elder hurrocks, much as it does earth elementals.
