112
G
rim
 H
ollow
m
onster
 G
rimoire
E
Andora
“She’s an odd one, that barmaid. Downright obsessed with 
every murder what happens in this forsaken city and always so 
modestly dressed because she’s covered in stitches underneath. 
Least, that’s what they say.”
Spark of Life
. Created by an eccentric inventor in 
the Raevan countryside, Andora spent her early years 
isolated from the outside world in his sprawling manor. 
The inventor had long ago been expelled from polite 
society in Raevo for his experiments on the dead, and 
he frequently opined about the small-mindedness of 
his contemporaries. He believed that when he finished 
Andora’s education he would reveal her to his peers 
in Castalore and be applauded for his genius. He may 
have been, had he not died of natural causes before he 
considered Andora’s education complete.
Etharis Companions
“Everything in this damned land tries to kill you: that’s my 
experience. But every once in a while you find a true friend. 
They only try to kill you if you deserve it.”
Exceptional Individuals
. Etharis’s citizens are simply 
trying to survive in a hostile, unforgiving world. Some are 
good, a few are evil, but most have neither the power nor 
the imagination to stand out. That’s what heroes are for.
There are some, however, who have intriguing stories and 
the ability to strike out on their own. These individuals have 
something important to do, but they may not be able to 
manage these grand tasks on their own. These nonplayer 
characters make perfect companions.
Useful Friends
. Companions like the ones presented 
here are useful in a variety of ways. If a group of characters 
is lacking in numbers or in particular skill sets, these 
companions can supplement a party. They also have 
their own stories, which can carry some of the narrative 
weight of an adventure or campaign. They can be used 
in the short term to introduce new adventures, or in 
the long term to act as an important piece for the game 
master’s part of the collective story.
Failed Attempt
. As part of her education, Andora 
learned etiquette, estate management, and several foreign 
languages—but not even the basics of her inventor’s craft. 
After years of careful research into his methods, she 
attempted to restore her creator to life using a modified 
version of the alchemical ritual he’d used to create her. 
The ritual failed to bring the inventor back to life, but 
it did waken his corpse and instill it with an insatiable 
need for violence. Andora fled the estate and began a 
new life in Castalore.
Catch a Killer
. Now Andora serves food and drink at 
a tavern and listens for news of the ruthless serial killer 
stalking the Raevan countryside with anxious guilt. She 
believes the murderer is none other than her accidental 
creation. Although Andora is reluctant to ask for help, 
if she discovers the player characters are also looking to 
find and stop the killer, she would share what she knows 
and join them on their mission. If the player characters 
help her in destroying her creation, they earn her trust—
and she requests to join them for further adventures.
