Hive Haunt
“As the insects swarm over their victim, the poor 
man is unable to move. Only moments pass before 
he tumbles to the ground, his skin turning a mottled 
green as venom courses through his veins.”
Undead Swarms
. Servants of necromancers, hive 
haunts are undead swarms of eusocial insects whose 
drive to obey a queen has been replaced by controlling 
power of an animating spirit. A hive haunt is difficult to 
construct. Adventurers dealing with such a swarm best 
be wary of its creator, who might have further unseen 
traps lying in wait.
Horrific Sacrifice
. Not only is the creation of a hive 
haunt a complex feat of magic, but it’s also cruel. The 
necromancer must catch a large hive of eusocial insects 
and ritually feed them into a sacrificial victim, taking 
care to keep the insects and the victim alive. Spells 
enacted force the insects to devour the victim’s soul 
from the inside, usurping it as the hive’s new queen. 
The necromancer must then consume the original insect 
queen to seal command over their creation.
Dispersed Intelligence
. The creation of a hive haunt 
erases the animating spirit’s personality and, in most 
cases, its memory. But it doesn’t reduce its intelligence. 
With their ability to send individual members of the 
hive into secure locations unnoticed, hive haunts can 
be employed as spies or stealthy assassins. Strong-
stomached necromancers have been known to carry 
hive haunts hidden in clothing, appearing unarmed 
to a casual observer.
Hunger for Flesh
. To maintain the animating spirit’s 
potency, a hive haunt must frequently feed on the flesh 
and spirit of the living. Sapient creatures are more sustaining 
than animals. A necromancer in command of such a hive is 
driven to greater acts of kidnapping and violence.
Undead Nature
. The hive haunt it requires neither air 
nor sleep.
salvage
Once a hive haunt is defeated, its animating spirit departs 
the swarm, leaving behind only rotting insect carcasses. 
These bodies can be pounded into a small quantity of a 
valuable, colorfast green or red dye worth 50 gp.
lore
DC 15 Intelligence (Religion)
: An undead spirit 
powers a hive haunt. The hive haunt has traits like other 
undead creatures and swarms.
DC 20 Wisdom (Medicine)
: The hive haunt injects a 
restraining poison and drains a victim’s life force.
