162
G
rim
 H
ollow
m
onster
 G
rimoire
H
Hunger-Cursed 
Carnivores
“Simple, peaceful animals turn into something horrifying 
when they fall prey to the Curse of Ravenous Hunger.”
Insatiable Transformation.
 The Curse of Ravenous 
Hunger is reviled not only because of its destructiveness, 
but also due to the horrid transformation of victims. 
Before such unfortunates mature into their ultimate 
form, the curse compels them to devour all manner of 
creatures before the realization that only humanoid 
flesh fulfills their needs.
The curse isn’t limited to people. It can affect animals, 
including herbivores. Due to the influence of the Beast, 
these previously docile animals change drastically. They 
grow fangs and develop bizarre traits to match their new 
dietary needs.
Carnivorous Cow.
 Ordinarily, one would never look 
twice at a dairy cow, but a carnivorous cow’s larger 
horns and sharp hooves warrant attention. These bovines 
have rows of sharklike teeth but prefer to patiently devour 
slain prey. It’s enough to make a hardy adventurer shudder 
when hearing a moo.
Dread Llama.
 The dread llama could never be 
mistaken for its docile kin. Its woolly coat turns bright, 
eye-catching red. Weavers prize this vermillion wool.
Edacious Equine.
 The three-eyed gaze of the fearsome 
beast known as the edacious equine can addle the mind, 
preventing escape. The horse’s maw resembles that of an 
alligator more than that of a friendly mare.
Esurient Elephant.
 The thunderous rumbling sound 
of a charging elephant bearing down on an enemy is 
scary enough. An elephant hunting for humanoid flesh 
and launching quills at its prey through its trunk can 
drive even the brave to terror.
salvage
Wealthy epicures prize the meat of hunger-cursed carni-
vores, claiming it tastes better than anything else. Someone 
who has proficiency with cook’s utensils can carve a beast’s 
choice cuts in 1 hour, or 4 hours for an elephant. This meat 
fetches 100 gp times the creature’s Challenge in the right 
markets. It spoils in hours if not preserved.
Dread llama wool is worth 25 gp per llama. Someone 
who has proficiency in Animal Handling or Survival 
can sheer a slain llama correctly, as can someone who 
has proficiency with weaver’s tools.
lore
DC 15 Intelligence (Nature):
 Beasts who fall victim to 
the Curse of Ravenous Hunger transform into a hunger-
cursed carnivore at an intermediate stage of the curse.
