Arcanist Inquisitors
“The joy common folk feel seeing a detachment of inquisitors 
pass by is matched only by the terror corrupt mages feel.”
Radical Measures.
 The Arcanist Inquisition exists 
to detain and destroy arcane spellcasters. Inquisitors 
believe that arcane magic is inherently corrupting and 
that even the best intentioned spellcaster can succumb 
to dangerous behavior and moral ruin. At first, the 
inquisition’s masters sought to monitor spellcasters, with 
detainment reserved for those who abused their magical 
gifts. Over time, the ideology became more hardline. 
Now, inquisitors put spellcasters whom they don’t 
imprison indefinitely to the fire.
Inquisitors train to discover mages, but they don’t rely 
only on their acumen. Folks fearful of being accused are 
happy to point a finger at a suspicious neighbor if doing 
so focuses the inquisition’s interest elsewhere.
Dogma Bound.
 The Arcanist Inquisition is known 
for its ongoing efforts to eradicate arcane magic and its 
practitioners. However, it also investigates other crimes 
against the edicts of the Arch Seraphs. Inquisitors carry 
a book of dogma derived from the words of Empyreus as 
spoken to Sagrado Valieda, the Inquisition’s founder. The 
book identifies moral crimes that call for punishments, 
ranging from public humiliation to death. Initiates apply 
a strict and literal reading to the crimes and consequences 
detailed within the book. High-ranking inquisitors have 
more leeway in how they choose to interpret the edicts. 
Inquisitors claim that if they set an innocent afire, 
Empyreus would douse the flames. That he has never 
done so is proof, adherents say, that no one has been 
wrongfully condemned.
Inquisitor Hierarchy.
 Inquisitor ranks vary from 
location to location. Sometimes, initiates give themselves 
grand titles, whereas powerful and stealthy mage-hunters 
might take no title at all. Certain areas have motley 
bands of inquisitors, some little more than thugs 
extorting the population. Other areas have organized 
