Putrid Giant
“Beware a giant with pustules and sloughing skin. 
Hill giants respond differently to the pox. It rots 
their flesh and instills them with deadly mania.”
Infected, Unrestrained.
 Weeping Pox is deadly to 
most creatures, but it can manifest differently. When a 
hill giant becomes infected, the fever sharpens the senses 
and creates a manic euphoria that never dissipates. 
Pustules form, and the flesh necrotizes, some sloughing 
off in strips and patches, but the disease doesn’t kill the 
giant. Accompanying exhilaration pushes the sick giant 
to greater violence and depravity.
The new flurry of mental activity impedes what little logic 
the giant had. This state makes the giant more arrogant. It 
believes no one can best it, physically or intellectually. Only 
death can convince the giant it’s mistaken.
Disease Seekers.
 Putrid giants believe the Weeping 
Pox is a boon. They seek out those who have the pox 
or died from it. The giants consume infected flesh, 
believing doing so bolsters their power. No evidence 
supports this view, but reasoning with a healthy hill 
giant would be a challenge.
Putrid giants kill and eat most other creatures. But their 
laziness competes with their depravity. A putrid giant 
might attract a following of morbus kobolds, who see the 
giant as a living representative of the Filth Grazer. This 
misbegotten clan serves the giant as further spreaders of 
its ailment, and the giant allows this service, likely eating 
only enough kobolds to keep the others servile.
salvage
A putrid giant is such a haven for the Weeping Pox that 
its gear and trinkets pose risk of exposure to the disease. 
It’s best to burn the body and flee the area the giant 
inhabited with care and haste. However, the possessions 
of those the giant killed are scattered about its lair.
A successful DC 20 Wisdom (Medicine) check allows 
one to carefully remove the brain of a putrid giant. This 
brain, if treated with 200 gp worth of magical components, 
can be turned into a meal for 4 people. For 8 hours after 
eating the brain, a creature gains 4d6 temporary hit points.
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (Nature):
 A putrid giant looks 
like it’s undead, but it’s still living and under the strange 
power of the Weeping Pox. Contact with the giant can 
infect other creatures, as can touching objects the giant 
has recently handled.
GM Advice:
 The strange effect the Weeping Pox has on 
hill giants might mutate them even further, including 
giving them a high enough Intelligence to allow them to 
start casting spells and reasoning much better than normal. 
Imagine a hill giant chieftain who figures this out: they 
would seek out the Weeping Pox for all of their followers!
