Ithjar
“It takes mere moments for an ithjar to transform 
from a kite-like swirl of gray and red in the 
distance to a menace of snapping teeth.”
Airborne Ophidian.
 An ithjar is a monstrous, 
snakelike flying predator. It writhes through the 
clouds seeking prey with vision that rivals that of a 
raptor. Once an ithjar locates a potential meal, the ithjar 
flies in a strange, swirling fashion, reminiscent of a 
long-tailed kite. As the ithjar closes in, that curious flying 
pattern becomes a whirlwind of violence and death.
Rows of slashing teeth line the crocodilian mouth 
of an ithjar. These fangs flay flesh from bone and can 
penetrate strong armor.
Writhing Foe.
 Opposite the ithjar’s mouth is a tail 
studded with spiked fins. The ithjar uses this tail to 
lash or ensnare prey. An ithjar’s lithe form and chaotic 
movement allows it to evade and confuse foes. But 
that’s not the only danger. 
The monster is hard to catch, escaping from a hold 
almost as quickly as a foe can wrestle it. An ithjar can 
quickly turn the tables on an enemy intent on capturing 
it. Its constricting coils can be as deadly as its bite.
Stormborn Scourge.
 Ithjars have been seen hunting 
alone, in small groups, and in packs. Such packs have 
been described as a glistening hurricane of scales, teeth, 
and blood. But far worse than the common ithjar is the 
stormborn ithjar. Those monsters add to their ferocity 
with the elemental powers of a storm.
salvage
Ithjar teeth and hide can fetch a fair price in larger 
markets. Necklaces and other decorations can be made 
from the teeth, and clothing can be fashioned from the 
skin and scales. Popular superstition says wearing ithjar 
teeth or hide imparts some of the creature’s nimbleness 
to the wearer. This belief isn’t wholly true, but someone 
who has proficiency with leatherworker’s tools can make 
hide armor from the hide that has a base AC of 13 and 
allows a wearer to apply their full Dexterity bonus to 
AC. Creating this armor takes 10 days. Such hide armor 
fashioned from a stormborn ithjar is 
armor of resistance
