Pesta
“Each season, a fieldhand sees a hazy shimmer and 
thinks it’s just the heat. They go out to work, and they 
never come back. It ain’t the heat shimmering out there.”
Heat Haze.
 Appearing as yellowish, humanoid-
shaped clouds, pestas can be hard to spot due to their 
incorporeal form. During hot days, a pesta and a heat 
shimmer appear identical.
Pestas are also called “the farmer’s shade.” Most of 
their victims are found in or around fields. They blend 
in with the wheat and corn, and farmers have mistaken 
a pesta for a cloud of dust.
Bearers of Disease.
 Pestas are the risen souls of 
people who died of a disease while working under the 
hot sun. In their final moments, they cursed their life 
being cut short. This emotion kept their soul anchored 
as an angry reflection of what they were in life, bound 
to spread the disease that claimed them .
Diseased Corpses.
 The victims of a pesta appear 
drained of vitality and have an unhealthy yellow hue 
to their skin. No matter how vigorous they were in 
life, in death they look as if they spent months battling 
a horrid disease. Such bodies are wrapped in cloth to 
avoid touching them and burned soon after they’re found. 
The pesta might be long gone, but the diseased corpse left 
behind can spawn another and continue to wreak havoc.
salvage
Legend says that if you listen carefully, succeeding on a 
DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check if you’re within 10 feet 
of the pesta when it perishes, the pesta reveals a cherished 
secret as it dissipates. Someone might also intuit this 
information with a successful DC 15 Wisdom (Insight) 
check. This knowledge could lead to something valuable.
lore
DC 15 Intelligence (Religion):
 The pesta can emit a 
noxious cloud that can infect victims with terrible diseases.
Variant: Weeping Pesta
Some pestas are the undead victims of the Weeping 
Pox, carrying that disease. Those diseased by such a 
pesta’s Plague Cloud or poisoned by its aura are infected 
with the Weeping Pox. A humanoid infected with this 
disease must repeat a DC 15 Constitution saving throw 
every 24 hours, increasing its exhaustion level by one 
on a failure. This exhaustion can’t be reduced until the 
disease is cured by magic. 
Until the first level of exhaustion sets in, however, the 
victim has sharpened senses. When making an ability 
check or saving throw against anything other than the 
disease, they can add a d4 to ability checks or saving 
throws. A slight fever and overexcitement are the only 
signs this condition comes from Weeping Pox.
