Bog Crawlers
“These massive atrocities burrow into the boggy ground to sleep 
for decades, sometimes centuries, only coming out of their slimy 
burrows to feed and destroy.”
Hulking Terrors.
 Fleshy masses of a vaguely amphib-
ian shape, these monstrosities wriggle out from deep 
hibernation in chaotic cycles, baffling the few naturalists 
who dare study them. The crawlers emerge ravenous, 
destroying everything in their path in search of food.
Bizarre Horrors.
 Disgusting masses caked with mud 
and slime, the bog crawler’s brown skin is covered in 
warts. Its face is somewhat frog-like, with a large mouth 
and multiple rows of sharp teeth. Its tail is a writhing 
mass of small tentacles that scuttle along the ground, 
propelling the creature on land and stabilizing it in 
water. Six large tentacles jut from the mass of its body, 
three on each flank, and are long and strong enough to 
attack nearby creatures and structures.
Famished Hunters.
 These beasts’ primary motivation 
is hunger. They eat any flesh, starting with wildlife, moving 
on to livestock, and then feasting on any community they 
encounter. Much like a snake, their jaws are connected 
by a ligament and muscle network, allowing them to 
unhinge and swallow enormous creatures.
Inexplicable Retreat.
 While most bog crawlers 
spend a great time feeding, others retreat early, their 
hunger seemingly slaked. If a reason for these premature 
hibernations could be found, untold carnage might 
be avoided.
salvage
A stone in the gullet of a bog crawler can be fashioned 
into a ring that combines the magic of a 
ring of the ram
and a 
ring of protection
. This work requires a proficient 
jeweler to spend 2500 gp in components and 5 days 
of work, succeeding on a DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana) 
check to complete the item.
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (History): 
Bog crawlers are mas-
sive creatures capable of great destruction and carnage. 
They worm their way out of ancient burrows to feed 
after hundreds of years of hibernation. 
DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana): 
Bog crawlers are im-
mune to acid and poison. They can swallow creatures 
almost as large as they are, topple towers and strong-
holds, can’t be stopped by charm or paralysis, and are 
immune to fear.
DC 20 Intelligence (Nature): 
While a bog crawler’s 
ability to swallow creatures is their greatest danger, they 
can use their main tentacles to grab and hold prey.
