Poppet
“Destroy our evil deeds, we pray. Disperse shadows 
from our minds, lest we perish for our sins.”
—Ancient Prayer
Cursed Existence.
 A poppet is a doll with a spirit inside 
it. This spirit can be a cursed humanoid soul or a fiend. In 
either case, the doll can be permanently destroyed only if 
the curse binding the spirit to it is ended.
Strong negative emotions can trap a spirit, as in the 
case of ghosts. With a poppet, a soul remains after a 
tragedy or negativity allows a fiend in. The evil that 
binds the spirit to the doll is so strong that anyone who 
picks up the poppet risks being cursed.
As part of the curse, a poppet has a cherry-sized stone 
heart within its torso. When the doll is slain and the 
curse is removed, the seams tear or the poppet vanishes, 
and the heart clatters to the ground amid a bloodlike 
fluid. Properly treated, this gem is a potent talisman 
against fear (see Salvage).
Talking Doll
. A poppet can talk, saying simple phrases 
that have sinister meaning in context or with hindsight. 
The doll speaks when a situation calls for it. Whenever a 
particular poppet is about to attack, for instance, it might 
say, “It’s time to play.”
When a person, usually a child, bonds with a poppet, 
the doll uses telepathy to converse with that person. 
Amused adults think the child is talking to an imaginary 
friend, not recognizing the real threat it slowly turns its 
owner toward evil.
When the opportunity presents itself, a poppet fiend 
strikes a deal. It makes a contract for that coveted pony, 
revenge on a bully, or getting out of chores. With each 
agreement, the owner descends further into wickedness.
Lifelong Friend.
 If the true nature of the poppet fiend 
remains undiscovered, it reveals its true nature when it 
believes its owner might accept this revelation. Stories 
tell of corrupted people working with a poppet fiend to 
continue the cycle of deceit and obtain their desires.
Constructed Nature
. A poppet that is a construct 
doesn’t require air, food, drink, or sleep.
salvage
Embedded in a poppet is a 
telltale heart
 (see Chapter 4). 
The faint whisper of the possessing spirit’s memories, 
whether ghost or fiend, lives on in this bloodstone the 
size of a large cherry. For the stone to work, the poppet 
it was attached to must have been truly dispatched, its 
curse ended.
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (Arcana):
 These possessed dolls 
are resistant to damage. Magic weapons can kill it, as can 
adamantine or silver.
DC 15 Intelligence (Religion):
 Some poppets are 
possessed by unquiet spirits but others are fiendish. 
All are cursed.
DC 20 Intelligence (Arcana): 
Embedded within a 
poppet is a bloodstone heart that can’t be found until the 
poppet’s curse is lifted.
