106
G
rim
 H
ollow
m
onster
 G
rimoire
E
Eldritch Priests
“First she spoke of a power greater than the gods. Then there 
was this ringing in my ears. I don’t remember what happened 
after that, but the nightmares were terrible.”
Chaos Dwellers.
 Certain entities are so ancient that 
some theorize they sprang from the primordial chaos that 
predates creation. The mere sight of these otherworldly 
abominations drives most beyond reason, yet some seek 
them out. These beings, called Aether Kindred, take little 
notice of mortals. Many of them exist in torpor, dreaming 
mystical, gruesome dreams in the emptiness between 
stars. Occasionally, however, mortals touch those dreams 
and garner a portion of the Kindred’s attention. Among 
these people are eldritch priests.
New Gods.
 After the demise of the Etharis pantheon, 
divine magic waned across the world. Desperate souls 
turned to worshipping the gods’ killers in the hopes of 
currying favor. These priests are few. One of their primary 
goals is to disseminate the “truth” that the gods waged 
war against a greater power and died for their hubris.
salvage
The touch of an Aether Kindred’s dreams can taint 
objects with an unstable nature, particularly potions. 
Any potion found on the servants of these beings has 
a 50% chance to be tainted, making the potion’s effects 
unpredictable. Someone inspecting such a potion must 
succeed on a DC 17 Intelligence (Arcana) check to 
identify the instability. Otherwise, the potion appears 
to be a normal potion of its type. When an unstable 
potion is consumed, roll on the Eldritch Effects table to 
determine the effect of the instability, which is in addition 
to the potion’s normal effects and can last as long as the 
potion does or 1 minute, whichever is longer. However, 
a creature can attempt a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw at 
the end of each of its turns, ending the instability effect 
on itself on a success.
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (History):
 In the wake of the gods’ 
disappearance, some turned to other ancient entities for 
power. Those that succeed are known as eldritch priests.
