Puck
“I’ve heard pixie dust is beautiful, magical stuff. The dust I 
saw was definitely magical, but it wasn’t beautiful.”
Crushed Spirit.
 A puck is a pixie whose hopes and 
dreams, loves and playfulness, have been erased by 
mistreatment, betrayal, or loss. Once a beautiful and 
merry being, a puck is now a sad, twisted monster. Once 
the transformation happens, the pixie’s dust dissipates. 
Without pixie dust, a pixie can’t fly, can’t use its magic, 
and can’t turn invisible. They lose their ability to 
commune with nature.
Puck Dust.
 Taking the place of pixie dust, puck dust 
allows the puck to retain magical powers that resemble 
those of a pixie. The substance corrupts soil, vegetation, 
and beast, and it enthralls plants and trees to do the 
puck’s bidding. Plants under the dust’s influence become 
telepathically and emotionally bonded to the puck. Despair 
drives these plants. Each feels the harm done to one.
Corpse Gardener.
 Pucks farm their glittering soil, 
using animals and other living creatures to produce 
fertilizer. The puck force feeds the grove’s dead material 
and soil to animals and humanoids. After a ripening 
time, the puck opens these unfortunates up to take 
refined soil from their innards. The puck keeps the 
creatures alive until this grisly harvest, earning the 
terrible epithet “corpse gardener.”
salvage
A slain puck produces up to six pinches of puck dust, 
which are magical but less effective in the hands of a 
nonpuck. Each dose can be used in one of two ways. 
Puck dust dispersed on a plant creature within reach 
of the disperser forces the plant to succeed on a DC 
13 Wisdom saving throw as if 
charm monster
 were cast 
upon it by the disperser. If the dust is dispersed on an 
inanimate shrub, it becomes an evil awakened shrub 
with an Intelligence and Charisma score of 3. Three 
doses scattered on a tree make it an evil awakened tree 
with an Intelligence and Charisma score of 3. Either use 
of puck dust animates the plant for only 1 hour.
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (Nature):
 The veil between the 
world and the fey world is thin here. A dark fey spirit 
has corrupted this place.
DC 15 Intelligence (Nature):
 The trees themselves 
are hindering your steps. They are in cahoots with a fey 
spirit. Anything you say or do is probably sensed by the 
spirit. Your senses might become targeted by the spirit. 
Do not trust anything you see.
DC 20 Intelligence (Nature):
 You are within the 
domain of a puck, pitiful creatures who scorn humanity 
and dominate nature. It uses plants as its weapons and 
concealment as its defense. Finding it may prove difficult, 
as the forest will protect it, but once found, it is frail.
