Quoxxarie
“Four rush out, their stable opened.
Their steps spawn screams, their chains have broken.
Wounded wails and bloody fields.
White for sickness, red for vying.
Empty tables and sundered shields.
Black for hunger, gray for dying.
Note this doom we’ve spoken.
Dread rams arise. They have awoken.”
Guts and Glory.
 A quoxxarie resembles a large ram 
stripped of parts of its skin with its innards exposed. 
It looks more like a gutted carcass than a living being. 
Mortals hesitate when they see a quoxxarie’s impossible 
form. The quoxxarie doesn’t. It charges its foes as they 
stand staring.
Infernal Vanguard.
 . Quoxxaries are mighty fiends, 
wrath incarnate, that fight at the vanguard of infernal 
armies. Some believe a quoxxarie is so bloodthirsty 
that only death can bring it peace. Fury is part of the 
creature’s body. When unable to fight, a quoxxarie paces 
in anticipation of combat.
Only another mighty fiend can control a quoxxarie, but 
risking a quoxxarie offers such a fiend a valuable soldier. 
An army with multiple quoxxaries is a powerful one. If 
their commander provides them with enough battles, 
the quoxxaries serve without much problem, and their 
fearsome reputation can keep enemies and rivals at bay.
Fourfold Destruction.
 Legend says that all four types 
of quoxxaries—red, black, white, and gray—brought 
together make an inexorable force that can lead to world-
wide destruction. Most scholars consider this belief to 
be hyperbole. It’s true that quoxxaries of varied colors 
fighting alongside one another make for a deadly group, 
especially with their combined auras. The myth likely 
arises from how rare it is to see multiple quoxxaries 
together. Without enemies to fight, quoxxaries of differ-
ing colors turn on each other, making the likelihood of 
seeing four different ones together all the less likely.
The four colors indicate unique traits. Red or izil 
quoxxaries are most common. The creature resembles 
a bloody carcass trailing gore, and its lust for battle is 
infectious. Black or ara quoxxaries are the smallest of 
these fiends, with the appearance of a burnt corpse. 
These quoxxaries weaken enemies and pollute the ground 
they walk on. White or oko quoxxaries resemble a pale, 
disease-ridden corpse, with a pestilential cloud hanging 
around it. The creatures appear weak, prone to stumbling 
and coughing, but they are as supernaturally sickening 
as their appearance suggests. Gray or boza quoxxaries 
are the rarest and most powerful, and they are also the 
most patient and circumspect in battle. A gray quoxxarie 
is skeletal, its ashy skin stretched tight over the bones, its 
desiccated organs giving off dust. This fiend brings pain 
and death with it, causing wounds to fester and refuse to 
heal. A gray quoxxarie prefers foes that are close to death.
