249
G
rim
 H
ollow
m
onster
 G
rimoire
P
Tireless Trackers.
 Pactbreakers have an instinctive 
sense, instantly recognizing those who make infernal, 
evil fey, or aberrant bargains. Those bound by such rules 
set off the construct’s enhanced senses. A pactbreaker 
uses this ability to relentlessly pursue any warlock or 
fiendish thrall.
Constructed Nature.
 A pactbreaker doesn’t require 
air, food, drink, or sleep.
salvage
The closest creature within 30 feet of a pactbreaker 
when it is destroyed absorbs a portion of the construct’s 
chaotic energy. If more than one creature is that close, 
each creature rolls a d20. The creature that rolls the highest 
or each creature that ties for highest gains the effects of a 
potion of heroism
.
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (History):
 Pactbreakers are 
constructs that hunt down mortal allies of fiends, evil 
fey, and aberrations. They can sense beings bound by 
bargains with such entities. Pactbreakers are resilient, 
resistant to normal weapons that aren’t adamantine, 
and resistant to magic.
DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana
)
:
 A pactbreaker can shift 
its shape and weapon. This magic weapon disrupts 
magic gained from supernatural contracts and pacts.
DC 20 Intelligence (Religion):
 A pactbreaker’s 
weapon can adjust to exploit some of a foe’s weaknesses. 
The construct can also fire a beam of force that grounds 
flying creatures.
GM Advice:
 In the world of Grim Hollow, characters are going to 
face powerful temptation to gain power through contracts with evil 
or unscrupulous powers. Not only are there typical warlock pacts, 
but there are some transformations granted through dealings with 
unholy forces. The pactbreaker is a wonderful tool for the GM to 
use to provide suitable consequences for those deals.
Introducing a pactbreaker at lower levels, before the characters 
are powerful enough to simply kill it, can make for a fun, recurring 
threat that the characters must first escape from, and then later 
deal with. The more toward evil the characters shift in their 
behaviors with the campaign, the more frequently the pactbreakers 
find and challenge them.
