Bone Trader
“Do you really need all of your bones? 
Are you sure I couldn’t just snack on a few? 
I’ll gladly pay you for them.”
Fey Barterers. 
Bone traders resemble well-dressed, 
shrunken pale elves. Their skulls appear a bit too small 
for their gaunt forms, like a toy with a mismatched head.
Hunger for Bones. 
Bone traders need a steady 
supply of bones to survive and for status. Most start as 
scavengers, acquiring the bones of small rodents or fish. 
As they grow in power, they seek more delicious sources 
of bone—and once they gain a taste for humanoid bones, 
they inevitably seek a ready source. Villages targeted 
by bone traders become desperate to make deals with 
these fey predators, sometimes agreeing to offer animal 
sacrifices, or even the occasional humanoid sacrifice, to 
keep the bone trader at bay. Like most fey, it honors the 
terms of such deals—and creates painful consequences 
for those who break them.
Intimidating Leader. 
Most bone traders create agents 
to hunt and gather more bones for their lairs. These gangs 
start with charmed animals but quickly grow to include 
easily intimidated humanoids like goblins, kobolds, or 
(their favorite minions) the faevlin. Bone trader lairs are 
twisted reflections of humanoid luxury, with sculptures, 
bas reliefs, and even flooring made entirely of bones.
Branded Minions.
 Bone traders “brand” their minions 
by sucking out a specific bone or set of bones, usually the 
same set for their entire gang. For example, a delicate bone 
trader might consume the bones of each minion’s left ear, 
their partial deafness a constant reminder of who is really 
in charge. A more brutal master might consume an arm-
bone or part of a foot, being careful to not damage their 
minions’ ability to carry out the bone trader’s wishes.
salvage
Bone trader lairs have many, many bones. Depending on 
how successful and powerful the bone trader is, it may 
also have the equipment and belongings of people it has 
killed or of the minions it employs. Its bone armor is 
infused with a peculiar magic.
Smashing the armor into a paste and mixing it with 
appropriate amounts of coagulant from a herbalism kit 
allows it to be applied it to a shield or weapon. This paste, 
called 
ready gunk
 (see Chapter 4), can be completed with a 
successful Wisdom check (DC 10) by someone proficient 
with a herbalism kit. This process takes 10 minutes.
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (History)
: A bone trader is most 
dangerous in its lair, where it can use its collection of 
bones to defend itself.
DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana)
: A bone trader can 
charm its opponents and is often defended by a small 
gang of intimidated or charmed creatures.
DC 20 Intelligence (Nature)
: Like other fey, bone 
traders can be tantalized by a deal and may be willing 
to negotiate rather than fight, even if it seems to have 
the upper hand or is actively winning a battle
