117
G
rim
 H
ollow
m
onster
 G
rimoire
E
Grimaldo Simoni
“They say the Thorn of Sante Viegre has killed a hundred 
inquisitors. It’s probably closer to ten, but I can’t deny that the 
brutality of his attacks seems to resonate with the common folk.”
Family Secrets
. Grimaldo Simoni and his older sister 
were raised by cousins. Told from an early age that his 
parents had been killed by a warlock, Grimaldo was 
tortured by the sense of loss. A sensitive child, he noticed 
that older villagers seemed to make a point of avoiding 
him and his sister. Only after his sister left to join the 
Arcanist Inquisition did he discover the reason late one 
night when his cousins had been drinking: his parents 
were not killed by a spellcaster but had been accused of 
being spellcasters themselves and subsequently put to 
death by inquisitors.
Thicker Than Blood
. Shortly after learning the 
truth of his parents’ deaths, Grimaldo began to study 
the occult. He became obsessed with following in his 
parents’ footsteps and avenging them by bringing 
pain and suffering to as many inquisitors as he could. 
When a traveling merchant came through his village 
with a book on blood magic, Grimaldo spent everything 
he had to buy it. Eventually rumors began to spread 
around his village that he was pursuing the arcane arts. 
The Inquisition was notified. He was captured easily 
and assumed he would die. His sister, however, who 
had joined the Inquisition, was charged with detaining 
him while he awaited his trial. She released him and led 
him away from sure death. For a few days they traveled 
together, but Grimaldo knew that she could not travel 
the same path as he. He snuck away from her and forged 
his own trail.
The Thorn of Sante Viegre
. Grimaldo spends his 
time continuing to hone his mastery of blood magic and 
carrying out guerilla attacks on small units of inquisitors 
in the Sante Viegre region of the Castinellan Provinces. 
He shows no mercy in these attacks, killing inquisitors 
and those who help them hunt arcanists. He leaves his 
victims in a state that shocks and terrifies anyone finding 
them. Grimaldo has many associates among wine 
smugglers in the area and is always looking to recruit 
those who might be sympathetic to his cause. If the 
player characters are known to dislike the Inquisition, or 
have a run in with inquisitors, Grimaldo might approach 
them to join forces.
