390
G
rim
 H
ollow
m
onster
 G
rimoire
Dreamer Vampire
“It moved in an eerie pattern, stumbling with some steps, as 
graceful as a dancer with others. It called to mind my mother, before 
and after she fell ill. Then, I realized I was alone in the dark.”
Nightmare Feaster.
 Dreamer vampires take their 
sustenance from nightmares, visiting sleeping mortals and 
inflicting night terrors. When close to a sapient creature, a 
dreamer vampire can plunge that victim into an illusory 
nightmare world and feast upon the victim’s terror.
Dream Voices.
 A young or older dreamer vampire com-
municates and moves in enigmatic ways. Their mind taps 
the dream world regularly, and the vampire filters useful 
information that often comes in a cryptic form. Dreamer 
vampires have been known to accurately predict coming 
events, especially catastrophes, despite possessing no skill 
in divination magic.
salvage
The brain of a young or older dreamer vampire has a 
connection to nightmares and bizarre prescience. Someone 
who has proficiency with alchemist’s supplies or cook’s 
utensils can prepare the brain according to a fabled recipe. 
Doing so requires other ingredients worth 250 gp, and the 
preparer must succeed on a DC 13 Intelligence or Wisdom 
check. If the process is successful, the brain produces four 
portions, and each portion makes the eater impossible to 
surprise for 24 hours. An improperly prepared brain has 
only the deleterious effect of eating a vampire body part.
A spellcaster can eat the whole properly prepared 
brain of an adult or older dreamer vampire as part of 
casting the 
foresight
 spell. Doing so extends the spell’s 
casting time to 10 minutes but increases the spell’s 
duration to 24 hours.
lore
DC 15 Intelligence (Religion):
 A dreamer vampire 
is as connected to dreams as a living dreamer, but the 
vampire prefers nightmares.
DC 20 Intelligence (History):
 Dreamer vampires 
damage the mind more than the body when they feed. 
They can create a nightmare dreamscape to drain victims 
of psychic energy.
