Downcast
“To assume the downcast are good at heart is foolish. 
Many still cling to delusions of grandeur and do 
anything to maintain them.”
Angel to Mortal.
 Once angels, downcast were made 
mortals with the death of the gods. In the time since, the 
downcast have had to adapt to their new identities and 
forge their own path through Etharis. That path often 
leads to the service of the Arch Seraphs or Arch Daemons.
Each downcast was once an angel in service to a god, 
a relationship that influences a downcast’s appearance, 
aptitudes, and interests. Other people of Etharis fail 
to notice the behavioral and physical details that 
distinguish service to one god from another, but the 
downcast easily recognize one another’s historical role 
in the divine hierarchy.
The downcast suffered a loss few others can relate 
to. They were immortal celestial beings who required 
neither sustenance nor sleep. They had no fear of disease 
or infirmity. Many downcast died during the early days 
after the fall because they didn’t or couldn’t adapt to 
being mortal. Those who survived still bear the scars of 
lessons hard learned.
Prayer to Prey.
 After the downcast became mortal, a 
cabal of unscrupulous spellcasters discovered the former 
angels could be used in sacrificial rituals to obtain great 
power. Since then, this knowledge has spread to those 
with occult interests and few moral reservations. Most 
downcast believe stories related to these rituals are only 
rumors, a belief that has cost more than one their life.
Downcast Lives.
 Created to serve the will of the gods, 
the downcast are used to following orders. This inclination 
leads some to pursue vocations in which completing 
orders without questioning their purpose is a virtue. 
Mercenary companies are a good place to start.
Other downcast seek to unlock the power within 
their semidivine form. Most downcast were capable of 
magic prior to their fall, but fewer pursue mortal magic. 
Downcast sangromancers master magic that can become 
more powerful with the spilling of its practitioner’s blood.
When the gods were destroyed, some downcast dealt 
with their new state by turning to other forms of spiritual 
power. Some turned to Arch Daemons or Aether Kindred, 
but other downcast founded cults dedicated to 
worshipping them.
salvage
The recently deceased body of a downcast can be used 
in a ritual to unlock magical power. This ritual takes 
16 hours to complete and requires candles, chalk, 
