Gasdra
“Nothing scares me more in the deep wood than the 
honking of the witch’s goose.”
Guard Geese.
 Gasdra look like a three-headed goose 
with snow white feathers. They are often created to serve 
as guards for the homes of hags or similar fey.
Born of Foul Ritual.
 To create a gasdra, a goose egg 
must be placed in a golden bowl worth 200 gp and bathed 
in the blood of a newborn infant. The egg is then left in 
the dark of a new moon for four hours, after which a fully 
formed gasdra hatches.
Vicious Temperament.
 Gasdra are extremely protective 
of their home and attack anyone who trespasses. Conven-
iently, they are carnivores who can strip a human of flesh 
in a day, so there’s not much mess.
Giant Gasdra.
 Giant gasdra are grown when a coven 
uses their powers to grow a regular gasdra to an enormous 
size. These seven-headed monstrosities can decimate a 
small village if provoked.
salvage
Once every two months gasdra lay 2d4 eggs. These eggs 
never hatch and are inedible by humanoids, though hags 
find them delicious. However, the yolks of gasdra eggs are 
the deepest black and can be used to make fine pigments. 
Each intact egg sells for 20 gp. Those proficient with 
alchemist’s supplies or painter’s supplies and succeed 
on a DC 15 Intelligence check turn an egg into 50 gp worth 
of pigment with one day of work.
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (Nature)
: Gasdra are vicious 
watch animals kept by hags that look like geese with 
three heads. Their three brains make them hard to affect 
with abilities that blind, charm, deafen, frighten, stun, or 
knock them unconscious.
DC 15 Intelligence (Nature)
: The eggs of gasdra are a 
valuable ingredient in black pigments.
DC 20 Intelligence (Arcana)
: A gasdra can be turned 
into a giant gasdra by a foul ritual that involves feeding 
the monstrosity seven newborn infants under a new moon 
and painting the creature’s feathers with seventy of its 
own eggs. When the new moon sinks below the horizon, 
the gasdra grows four more heads and becomes massive, 
its feathers forever stained dark as night. Giant gasdra are 
suitable as mounts for hags and other evil creatures.
