Lyfaren
“If the path fades out beneath your feet, be careful 
where you look to find it again. Following the wrong 
trail marker might be your last steps.”
Underground Bound
. Lyfaren are enormous burrowing 
creatures, looking like a massive rocky leach, that spend 
their lives surrounded by dirt, rock, and rubble. They 
can’t see, but rather perceive the world through vibrations 
with their antenna, the only part of their bodies which 
can survive in open air. Lyfaren can sense the movement 
of an earthworm, as well as the feet of the bird that briefly 
landed to acquire that snack.
Off-Trail Tricks
. Like the anglerfish and many other 
creatures, lyfaren lure in their preferred prey, humanoids, 
with the temptation of safety or curiosity. Their antenna 
closely resembles stacks of rock that we would call a cairn: 
a manmade stone marker indicating a trail or other location 
of interest. But as soon as you’re within a few paces, they 
swallow you whole, leaving nothing to see.
Imprecise But Deadly
. While slow and easy to avoid if 
you know what you’re looking for, the lyfaren swallows 
even the strongest adventurers before they can fight back.
salvage
The “rocks” that form the lyfaren’s antenna can be cracked 
open, revealing what looks like beautiful crystals, much 
like a geode. There is a 25% chance that a lyfaren has 
an antenna that can be turned into a yellow diamond 
elemental gem
. This transformation requires someone 
proficient in the Nature skill to succeed on a DC 15 
Intelligence (Nature) check while using 50 gp of other 
components. The process takes 4 hours.
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (Nature)
: Only the antennae and 
the maw of the lyfaren can survive outside of the earth. 
However, the maw can easily swallow up creatures the 
size of a horse, pulling it into its rock-filled gullet.
DC 15 Intelligence (History)
: When trying to figure 
out if a cairn is manmade or deadly, look for a leaf, feather, 
or small piece of ribbon between the rocks. Man-made cairns 
are often decorated, while a lyfaren antenna may have bones 
or blood near it.
DC 20 Intelligence (Arcana)
: A lyfaren needs the 
pressure of being surrounded by dirt to survive, find a 
way to unearth one and the fight is over.
