Bloodbonded
“Those who’ve turned their back on both the Seraphs 
and the Daemons? That way lies madness.”
Disheveled Priests.
 A bloodbonded, at first glance, 
appears as an acolyte of an Arch Seraph whose vestments 
and robes are in disrepair. A closer look reveals a maimed 
body covered in pulsing red markings, generally missing 
an arm or even a leg. Angelic markings on the skin are 
replaced with nonsensical runes and patterns, meticulously 
scrawled in overlapping ways.
Justice Misled.
 Bloodbonded are the unique consequence 
of one of the Arch Daemon Venin’s more elegant deceptions. 
Sometimes, when a particularly prayerful penitent 
beseeches Arch Seraph Solyma for guidance, Venin 
answers. The penitent, believing they hear the call of 
their angelic lady, drinks deeply of the cup of pride 
that they alone can hear the words of Solyma.
Irredeemable Apostates. 
Inevitably, Venin’s twisted 
words demand horrible deeds: dark murder under the 
guise of justice, humanoid sacrifice under the veil of 
restoring balance, or self-mutilation as a penance for sins. 
Venin then reveals his lies to seal the fate of the deceived. 
Sometimes, these cheated creatures become devotees 
of Venin, seeing in his tricks the power they sought in 
justice. Others are torn by their misplaced devotion, 
renouncing the dark acts and terrible deeds too late. 
They lose their humanity and the divine powers they 
were once the sacred (or profane) keepers of.
Manipulative Leaders.
 The bloodbonded are mad, 
twisted, and hungry for the power and direction. To regain 
that power, they promise other desperate souls happiness, 
power, or vengeance. They gather a cult of the gullible, 
desperate, or weak, dominating the common folk and 
making ever-greater demands on their lives and sanities.
Running on Empty. 
The power of the bloodbonded 
comes from their own lifeblood and the residue of power 
left there by the enchantments they willingly bore and so 
suddenly renounced. 
salvage
Bloodbonded still possess the damaged and scarred 
remnants of their past devotions. When a bloodbonded 
dies, its blood still pulses and gives off light as it did when 
it was alive. One vial of this blood can be harvested from 
a single bloodbonded with a successful DC 10 Wisdom 
(Medicine) check. Drinking it within one day causes the 
user to be under the effect of a 
bless
 spell. When the spell 
ends, the user suffers one level of exhaustion.
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (History): 
Bloodbonded are 
victims of their own foolish choices, worshipping false 
gods and then being driven mad by the ruse.
DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana): 
Bloodbonded use their 
followers as weapons, even causing them to explode in a 
wave of fiery blood, which damages nearby creatures.
