64
G
rim
 H
ollow
m
onster
 G
rimoire
C
The Churning
“You’ll see it coming, days ahead, but you can’t stop it. Like 
the turn of the world, it’s inevitable. But with destruction 
comes new life, as is the way of things.”
Mountain, Monster.
 The Churning is an enormous 
wandering ooze that resembles a moving hill and 
smells like earth and rock. Thought to be unique, it 
devastates everything it passes over. From villages to 
forests, the Churning carves an endless line of destruction. 
Left in its wake is rich soil, the opportunity for regrowth. 
The Churning can be as long as half a mile and at least 
60 feet wide.
Endlessly Onward.
 The Churning stops for nothing 
and no one. It can’t. Sages say that if the Churning is 
stopped, its insides will seize up, resulting in a swift and 
sudden demise. But if the creature dies, it or another of 
its kind reappears somewhere in the world within a few 
decades, although sometimes sooner and sometimes 
much longer.
Ooze Nature.
 The Churning doesn’t require sleep.
salvage
Most of the objects the Churning keeps inside it eventually 
break down to constituents of rich soil. The Churning’s 
remains contain vast amounts of pulverized material, 
from wood chips to rubble—more than it seems the 
Churning could contain, despite its size. Magic items 
survive longer, and some the Churning can’t break down. 
More than one tale of the Churning tells of heroes who 
temporarily stopped the creature, finding a magic device 
they needed for further exploits in the remains. It’s as if 
the Churning, as a bizarre force of balance and rebirth, is 
an instrument of fate in this way.
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (Nature): 
It’s easy to follow the 
Churning. Look for a wide line of rich, tilled soil.
DC 15 Intelligence (History):
 The Churning has 
plowed through several cities, but the soil left behind 
allowed for rapid regrowth, resulting in larger and more 
prosperous settlements.
DC 20 Intelligence (Arcana):
 The Churning has poor 
senses and no volition to hunt or kill creatures, especially 
those out of its reach. The best way to avoid death from 
the Churning is to avoid the Churning.
