282
G
rim
 H
ollow
m
onster
 G
rimoire
R
Red Hag
“Those three ladies who own the new tavern are so 
friendly! It’s become my favorite drinking spot.”
Hag Schism.
 Long ago, folk believed a few hags were 
kind, that most hags bared their fangs, but others lent a 
hand. This inspired the notion that some hags could blend 
into mortal society. In truth, the “nice” hags learned to 
catch more flies with honey—a little kindness goes a long 
way when deceiving mortals.
A schism formed among hags. A majority of hags saw 
those who pretended to be kind as an anathema. Covens 
convened to perform one of the most unholy curses hags 
ever produced. This curse set a hag who transgressed apart 
and made her mortal, marking her in scarlet: a red hag.
Unchanging Form. 
A red hag can’t change her form. 
She knows no magic to disguise herself. She must get along 
in her natural form, that of a middle-aged human. Unable 
to trick mortals using deceptive magic, they instead rely on 
more common deceptions and wit. Once a red hag feels she 
has pushed her luck in one settlement, risking revealing her 
true nature, she moves on to the next.
Life and Voice Thieves. 
A red hag subtly manipulates 
people to gain trust and friendship before preying on a 
target. To do so, the hag uses magic to charm the target, 
then to make the target forget it was charmed. Over time, 
the process makes a creature feel genuine fondness for the 
hag, or more. 
The hag’s touch saps the will to live and express, 
energizing the hag and extending her life. If a red hag all 
but kills a target with this draining, the creature can lose 
their voice to the hag forever. The hag can speak in the 
voices she has stolen.
Red Covens
. As with other hags, red hags seek hag part-
ners to form covens and increase their magic. Such covens 
usually involve only red hags, and they often create a 
situation or seek work that brings them into contact with 
mortals vulnerable to manipulation. Coven members 
can also perform a ritual that allows a coven member to 
take a mortal’s body. The hag’s curse makes even this 
“transformation” temporary, but the theft gives the red 
hag opportunities she lacks in her normal form. And a 
youthful body can further stave off the hag’s mortal decline.
salvage
Red hags maintain readiness to flee their current living 
arrangements. They carry their most precious belongings 
with them. These objects are treasures that might have 
some malevolent emotional value to the hag, like a trophy. 
Red hags are willing to use this wealth to bargain with 
attackers or other beings.
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (Arcana):
 A red hag is a mortal fey 
cursed to absorb life from people to avoid aging and dying. 
This kind of hag can drain a person’s vigor to heal herself.
DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana):
 Red hags are subtle 
rather than mighty foes. Their enchantments are 
potent, and a red hag can make a victim forget they 
were charmed. These hags rarely attack directly when 
manipulation can work. And those the hag drains can 
lose their voices, which the hag keeps and uses.
DC 20 Intelligence (Arcana): 
Three red hags can 
form a coven that puts more magic at each member’s 
disposal. A red hag coven can perform a ritual to steal 
the body of a mortal, sending that person’s soul to the 
afterlife as the hag’s soul possesses it. Red hags enact this 
ritual most often to stave off aging. The hag’s curse causes 
her to slowly transform back into herself.
