Witch Owl
“This enormous owl’s face looks strangely human, 
framed by long black hair. The rest of its body is all 
owl, its legs ending in large talons.”
Cursed Creation
. A witch owl is a vengeful creature, 
searching nightly to eat its fill of humanoids. Folklore 
says that the first witch owl was once a person punished 
for practicing magic.
This story might be true, but the condition is a curse 
that can affect anyone. Three days after suffering a scratch 
from a witch owl, feathers begin to grow on a victim’s 
body. Each day, the unfortunate becomes more owl-like, 
until they completely transform seven days later. The 
transformation can be reversed with a 
remove curse
 spell 
up to nine months after it takes hold, at which point only 
a 
wish
 spell can reverse the curse.
Patient Hunters
. Witch owls often hunt alone at night. 
They attract curious prey by hooting and mimicking 
voices, encouraging followers for several miles. Hopeful 
folk might think the witch owl is leading them to 
treasure or some other good. Most are instead lured to 
the witch owl’s nest and slain.
Witch owls also have long memories. If prey escapes, 
the witch owl searches for weeks to make the kill. If its 
nest is disturbed, it tracks interlopers for many miles, 
waiting for an opportunity to attack.
Odd Followers
. The stories and mystery of witch owls 
have led to a small following of cultists, who believe 
that worship might bestow them feathered wings. These 
cultists have been known to kidnap others as offerings to 
witch owls, leaving victims at nests as a sacrifice.
Aged Power
. Some witch owls live long enough to 
learn how to mimic their prey and become a witch owl 
hexta, mastering the ability to draw on old magic to 
appear human. These illusions don’t make the witch 
owl capable of speech, so the monster often beckons for 
help. The wisest of these hextas use others, such as cultist 
sacrifices, to trick rescuers to coming to the hexta’s nest.
salvage
Someone who has proficiency with an herbalism kit or al-
chemist’s supplies can grind the talons of a witch owl into 
powder and combine them with herbs to create a paste. 
Creating the paste takes a successful DC 14 Intelligence 
(Arcana) check and 4 hours of work. Eating the paste as 
an action grants the effects of 
disguise self
 for 3 hours.
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (Nature)
: A witch owl can be 
found hunting at night. During the day, they usually 
hide in their lairs.
DC 15 Intelligence (History)
: Stories tell of people 
becoming witch owls after surviving an attack by one of 
these monsters.
DC 20 Intelligence (Arcana).
 Older, wiser witch owls 
can disguise themselves with illusions.
