Malikirian Imp
“I can give you anything, mortal. Riches? Accolades? To be 
important, for once? Whisper your secrets to me. I will tell 
you the secrets of your rivals. They all dance with me.”
Prideful Purpose
. A minor daemon of Malikir, Arch 
Daemon of Pride, the Malikirian imp was created to 
tempt mortals into acting on their base desires and 
soothe their guilty consciouses with rapturous feelings 
of entitlement and certainty. It is said the Angel of 
Empyreus keeps one chained to elicit confessions and 
goad mortals into the very acts of sin the Angel of 
Empyreus seeks to punish.
A Decrepit Devil
. The imp is a wretched, bruised, 
shriveled creature that would almost inspire pity, 
were it not unmistakably fiendish. Its diminutive head 
resembles the skull of a bighorn sheep, and its sinuous 
body is covered in cracked and haggard scales.
Infernal Intelligence
. Before the Godswar, these imps 
would be exchanged as gifts and familiars by agents of 
Malikir to influential mages or court advisors to inspire 
selfishness, war, and hunger for power. They are spies 
experts at gaining secrets and revealing them for 
maximum damage.
salvage
If caught alone with a hostile foe, the imp pleads for its 
life and pledges to serve its new master. It gives its name, 
which a caster can use when casting 
find familiar
 to summon 
and bind the imp as their familiar.
An imp’s scales and bones can be used to create a 
potion 
of fire resistance
 with a DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana) ability 
check from a character proficient in alchemist’s supplies. 
This takes 2 hours and 10 gp of materials. However, there’s 
a 10% chance that the person taking the potion will be 
vulnerable to all other damage.
Eating the Malikirian imp’s heart grants the ability to 
cast 
suggestion
 once without using a spell slot. The DC to 
resist this spell is 10.
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (Religion)
: Beware the 
multitudinous throngs of Malikir’s progeny, for they 
can corrupt even the most pure-hearted and spur them 
to acts of sin and moral decay.
DC 15 Intelligence (History)
: Many a foolish warlock 
thought they had the upper hand when they received 
such a pathetic creature as their familiar, but they 
underestimated the imp at their peril.
DC 20 Intelligence (Arcana)
: Despite archmages’ 
divinations, no one quite knows how the Angel of 
Empyreus came to hold the chains of a Malikirian imp. 
This cannot be good news.
GM Advice:
 Play the Malikirian imp as the master manipulator it 
is. Its main weapon is its enemy’s greed, so dig deep into whatever 
might tempt a character, and keep digging until you find a weakness. 
Often even if a character isn’t greedy, the player is.
