78
G
rim
 H
ollow
m
onster
 G
rimoire
D
Danxoni
“It’s a blessing that danxoni—strange, elongated, multiarmed 
monstrosities—are a rare sight. Not only are they prone to 
violence, but if they were to proliferate any faster, their voracious 
appetites would quickly strip an area of its natural resources.”
Churning Innards
. The warm moistness of a danxoni’s 
digestive tract is an ideal habitat for insects, fungi, and 
other tiny organisms. The relationship is symbiotic. The 
smaller creatures flourish in a secure environment with 
ready access to nourishment, and the digestion they do 
helps the danxoni absorb its varied meals.
Multitude of Hungers
. Danxoni observed in the wild 
have been recorded as eating anything. They eat fresh 
prey, carrion, wood, poisonous plants, and rock and met-
al. To eat, a danxoni rips chunks with its strong arms and 
stuffs the material down its throat. The digestive powers 
of a danxoni’s hitchhikers allow it to extract sustenance 
out of any substance.
Once Sapient?
 Some observant adventurers have 
noted the oddly humanlike appearance of a danxoni’s 
face. All attempts to communicate with a danxoni have 
confirmed an animal intelligence, leading some to 
wonder whether danxoni were once a sapient species.
salvage
Someone who has proficiency with an herbalism kit can 
process portions of a dead danxoni’s internal colonies 
to produce antitoxin or an herbal cure for sewer plague. 
Doing so requires 1 hour of work and a successful DC 11 
Intelligence or Wisdom check. One danxoni can provide 
enough material for four doses of antitoxin or herbal 
cure, or a mix of both.
lore
DC 10 Wisodm (Medicine)
: Danxoni can exhale their 
internal symbionts in a caustic, poisonous, and infectious 
cloud. Killing a danxoni releases these disease-causing 
parasites. If harvested properly, however, these creatures 
can be used to make antitoxin or a cure for sewer plague.
DC 15 Intelligence (Nature)
: Necrotic damage 
can quickly wipe out large numbers of the danxoni’s 
internal symbionts, so this damage is very effective 
against a danxoni.
