386
G
rim
 H
ollow
m
onster
 G
rimoire
Downcast Vampire
“I heard the mournful song as I rounded the corner of the 
crumbling church. By the time I realized the creature singing 
had been feasting on a family visiting the graveyard, it was 
nearly too late for me.”
Sorrowful Singers.
 A downcast vampire is a sad, 
broken creature. Stripped of divinity and further shack-
led by the curse of vampirism, they spend their days in 
sorrow, distracting themselves by killing and singing. 
Creatures hearing a downcast vampire’s dirge can be 
driven to extremes, and some lose consciousness.
Creature of the Light.
 Although the curse of vampirism 
changes the downcast, celestial ancestry makes the vampire 
less susceptible to turning. The undead state insulates the 
celestial form completely against necrotic damage. But the 
vampire’s form is less mutable.
salvage
The flesh of a downcast vampire, reduced to ash, can be 
a potent healing agent if activated properly. (Using the 
flesh in this way precludes rendering it into ointment but 
doesn’t prevent the use of the vampire’s claws, tongue, 
or bones.) Someone who has proficiency with alchemist’s 
supplies or the Arcana skill and brewer’s supplies can 
take the ash from one adult or older downcast vampire’s 
remains and brew it for 1 day with a 
potion of healing
. If 
the brewer succeeds on a DC 15 Intelligence or Wisdom 
check, the brew becomes a 
potion of heal
 (see chapter 4). 
Failing the check results in a 
potion of harm
 (see chapter 
4), although it appears no different from its counterpart 
until consumed.
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (History):
 Downcast were 
anchored to the world when their lords perished. The 
curse of vampirism bars them from returning to celestial 
realms. Mentioning this fact might cause debilitating 
sadness, but it could also lead to reckless rage.
DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana):
 A downcast vampire’s 
mournful dirge sends all but the bravest who hear it 
running in terror. Some are so overwhelmed, they pass out.
DC 20 Intelligence (Religion):
 A downcast vampire 
is immune to radiant damage and the creature is 
extremely hard to turn.
