202
G
rim
 H
ollow
m
onster
 G
rimoire
M
Mageplants
“Why do common folk hate magic? Look at the experiments of 
those with magical power! Consider mageplants: picking 
a flower could be either a delight or a deadly trap!”
Creations of Magic
. Mageplants don’t come into 
being by ordinary means. Each was the result of magical 
experimentation or intentional cultivation by arcanists, 
druids, or other powerful creatures.
A Deadly Surprise
. Mageplants usually look like 
mundane plant life, making them a particularly nasty 
hazard for those not trained in the differences. When 
that rose begins spitting fire or a vine drags you into the 
earth, it’s not likely to be a good day.
Thunderblossoms
. These explosive plants look like small 
rose bushes that grow low to the ground. When active, 
they scuttle in and out of the fray, allowing their blooms to 
explode, sending seeds (and destruction) everywhere.
Lightning Vines
. These masses of vines grow small blue 
blooms that hum with electricity. They lash out, grappling 
living creatures to deliver heart-stopping shocks.
Flash Freezes
. These white-barked trees bear frosty 
blue leaves and snow-white blossoms. They enjoy leaching 
the warmth out of nearby living creatures.
salvage
The seeds from three thunderblossoms, two lightning 
vines, or one flash freeze can be worked into an oil that, 
when placed on a weapon, can allow that weapon to do 
damage corresponding to the nature of the plant. Making 
this oil requires someone proficient with the Nature skill 
to succeed on a DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana) check after 
spending 12 hours and 100 gp of components. This oil, 
when put on a melee weapon, deals an additional 6 (1d12) 
damage of the type based on the plant for 24 hours.
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (Nature)
: All mageplants are 
created rather than occurring naturally. Most often 
druids or wizards are responsible for planting them in 
areas they want to protect.
DC 10 Intelligence (History)
: Thunderblossoms are 
a useful early warning system for identifying intruders. 
Planting a border of them can make it hard for someone 
to walk up on their creator undetected.
DC 15 Intelligence (Nature)
: Lightning vines are faster 
than most people suspect and can pick off incautious 
stragglers before anyone realizes they’ve fallen.
DC 20 Intelligence (Arcana)
: Flash freeze trees are 
hard to stabilize without killing the original plant and thus 
relatively rare among mageplants. Powerful spellcasters 
sometimes awaken such trees to make them an even 
deadlier threat.
