285
G
rim
 H
ollow
m
onster
 G
rimoire
R
Restless Lumberer
“Huge thumps from across the street woke me. All night 
long, I swear. Next day, I go to say something to the 
noisy thumpers. Everyone there was dead, and strange 
arcane marks covered the walls.”
Dream Protectors
. Lanky, long-limbed, and stooped, 
a restless lumberer is a giant scarred by contact with 
the Aetheric Kindred. Restless lumberers once cast their 
slumbering minds abroad into the far reaches of the 
multiverse, communing with cosmic beings in somnolent 
bliss. This left them vulnerable to the nightmares of 
the Kindred as they waged war on the gods of Etharis, 
which shattered the minds of the restless lumberers.
Having seen cosmic horrors firsthand, some restless 
lumberers seeks to thwart the Kindred’s influence by 
denying them the dreams of mortals. Other restless 
lumberers work to restore the Kindred, seeing resistance 
to their immense power as pointless. They collect strange 
sleepers for this purpose.
Literal Sleepers
. The most infamous restless lumberer 
dwelt in the abandoned vaults of Stehlenwald in the 
Rauland province of the Bürach Empire. Other cities 
house restless lumberers, but they largely keep to 
themselves. The different factions are, however, known 
to fight each other, causing minor earthquakes and 
sinkholes. They lair in old cellars, bricked-up vaults, and 
derelict tunnels, often burying themselves in sleepless 
hibernation, contemplating the collections of strange 
objects and items of eldritch significance taken from 
dreamers’ homes that predict when the Kindred’s 
dreams seep into the nightmares of mortal sleepers.
No Sleep for the Dreamers
. Lumberers who 
fight against the Kindred keep dreamers awake by 
rattling foundations, knocking on walls, or shouting 
to prevent them from sleeping until the dreams pass. 
They may kidnap sleeping people out of their beds, 
taking them to their lair. Restless lumberer devotees 
of M’rorcameleth are particularly fond of people with 
peculiar or mystical dreams.
salvage
A restless lumberer’s lair is home to its collection of arcane 
curios and eldritch paraphernalia and might contain any 
number of spell components, spell foci, or magic scrolls.
The brain of a restless lumberer has been molded and 
washed over by countless waves of psychic energy from 
the Aetheric Kindred. A proficient jeweler can take the 
powdered brain of a restless lumberer and combine it 
with 1000 gp of components to create a 
ring of nightmares
(see Chapter 4). This requires 5 days of work and a successful 
DC 20 Intelligence (Arcana) check.
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (History)
: Local sightings report 
hearing houses groaning and rattling and feeling the 
ground thump with an irregular beat.
DC 15 Intelligence (History)
: The merchants league 
found their secure vault empty recently, including their 
collection of ancient temple scrolls. The entire floor 
was gone and a gaping tunnel leading deep into the 
undercity left in its place.
DC 20 Intelligence (Arcana)
: Legend says the lumber-
er was once a dream-walking giant who witnessed a gods’ 
death and now lurks in forgotten vaults beneath the city 
collecting interesting dreamers.
