Putrefaction Slug
“While all slugs and such slick sliders are creepy, 
one type in particular transforms other creatures to 
something even more disgusting.”
Repulsively Quick
. Slithering along faster than you’d 
expect on a glistening trail as clumpy and green as plague 
victim’s snot, the putrefaction slug’s brownish-red bodies 
writhe unnaturally, as if their innards are itching to 
escape. Their slithering mass vibrates and shakes loose 
a strange and dusty yellow miasma just before they spit, 
emitting a sulfuric stench.
Fates Worse than Death
. Slugs target their victims 
with bile-colored spit, causing unfortunates to dissolve 
in a matter of moments. A slug’s hunger is also its 
weakness. Once they’ve spewed their digestive juices 
and flesh begins to putrefy, a slug’s instincts take over, 
and it begins to feed. That’s not good for the victim, but 
the slug focuses on little other than the eating, which is 
an excellent time to strike for the kill.
salvage
Putrefaction slugs ignore what they can’t devour, making 
any treasure they possess incidental. But the glands that 
generate their digestive acid are prized by alchemists.
Removing an intact slug gland requires a successful 
DC 12 Intelligence (Nature) or Wisdom (Medicine) 
check. Once removed, the gland must be stored in 
alcohol or similar preservative agents. Using four such 
glands, a person can create a more potent version of acid 
that renders a target that takes damage from the acid 
vulnerable to bludgeoning damage until the end of the 
thrower’s next turn.
These enhanced acids are called sluggers, cost 40 gp, 
and weigh the same as a standard vial of acid. Creating 
a slugger requires proficiency with alchemist’s supplies 
and a successful DC 13 Intelligence check to use them in 
a process that takes 4 hours. Failure creates normal acid, 
while failure by 5 or more renders a useless result.
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (Nature):
 A putrefaction slug 
spits acid. This acid can dissolve a creature into a 
puddle of goo.
DC 15 Intelligence (Nature):
 The slug’s digestive 
acid softens tissue, making it vulnerable to crushing 
and tearing. Water helps dilute this acid.
