Eagal Sithe
“Flitting in the shadows, just out of most people’s perception, 
these fey excel at sowing strife and ruining lives.”
Creepy Lurkers.
 Eagal sithe are rarely seen in their 
true form. They scutter about like roaches, spying 
from crevices and shadows in search of their next 
victim. Patient and obsessive creatures, they savor such 
selection, like a gourmand of corruptible emotion. They 
learn routines, note traumas and petty frustrations, and 
then dig in. Once they do, they’re hard to shake loose.
Roachlike Fey.
 Eagal sithe sport a rusty brown 
carapace that protects their wings, and their body is 
propelled by two pairs of spindly, insectoid appendages, 
driving it with incredible speed and creepy grace. Its 
flat upper body is a disgusting humanoid—squashed, 
sickly pale, and distorted—with a tiny, sneering mouth 
and large, dead-black eyes framed with constantly 
searching antennas.
Subtle Manipulators.
 Once their prey is chosen, an 
eagal sithe latches on with an insidious emotional bond, 
allowing them to manipulate their victim. They feed off 
negativity in a heady mix of psychic nourishment and 
emotional addiction. As the fey feeds, its power grows, 
and it bloats like a swelling parasite.
Mental Scavengers.
 This psychic feeding is debilitating 
and eventually fatal to the prey. But such a death releases 
a surge of emotional energy, elevating the eagal sithe 
to greater heights of power for a fleeting time. And once 
this surge dissipates, the fey moves on, searching for a 
new victim and starting the horrid process anew.
salvage
A dried and ground eagal sithe is a potent reagent for 
many potions, elixirs, poisons, and magic items that can 
charm, frighten, or affect the mind. When combined with 
such items’ standard components, the DC of any effects 
requiring either a Charisma or Wisdom saving throw 
increases by 1. An eagal sithe is typically worth 50 gp to 
a person knowing its worth.
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (Nature or Arcana):
 These 
malevolent fey create a bond that allows them to manipulate 
others’ emotions. The more it feeds off its prey’s negative 
emotions, the more powerful the fey becomes.
DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana): 
A dead eagal sithe is 
worth a fair amount of gold to an alchemist or crafter of 
magic, but only if the corpse is less than a week old.
102
G
rim
 H
ollow
m
onster
 G
rimoire
E
