Y
Yggdrasili
“If you see a friend who looks like his hat size has increased a bit, 
you might be looking at the end of your life as you know it.”
Psychic Infestation.
 The yggdrasilis are a collective 
of humanoids from various races who’ve contracted a 
viral psychic infection that binds them to one another 
in subservience to the Aether Kindred, Pharazorthok. 
Linked together to a hivemind, yggdrasili pursue 
their goals by covertly infiltrating communities and 
institutions until they have amassed enough drones to 
take what they want by force. Isolated communities who 
suspect the early stages of an yggdrasili infiltration can 
descend into paranoia and mob violence, whether their 
fears of yggdrasili are founded or not.
The rawest form of the hivemind is an yggdrasili 
cloud, a mist of swirling violet. This cloud is an 
infectious vector that can move to other locales to 
spread the infection. It can also act as a scout, feeding 
information telepathically to other yggdrasili in the area. 
When enough yggdrasili drones gather, they can release 
a new cloud, almost as if they’re breeding.
Assimilated Development.
 When an yggdrasili 
renders a humanoid unconscious with psychic attacks, 
it attempts to connect that creature to the yggdrasili 
hivemind. Upon awakening, an infected creature is alive 
but no longer capable of exerting its will. As a drone, 
it’s beholden to directions telepathically given from 
the closest yggdrasili crown. In the absence of a nearby 
crown, an yggdrasili feels compelled to remain incognito 
and infect others with the condition.
In the infection’s early stages, yggdrasilis appear 
much like they did in life. Their physical appearance is 
unchanged, and an yggdrasili drone has access to the 
original creature’s memories, mannerisms, and other 
personal details. As the condition advances, the drone 
forgets the details of its host’s former life, and its veins become 
more evident as its head swells. These symptoms are espe-
cially pronounced in those who become yggdrasili crowns.
An yggdrasili crown has protruding veins and a 
swollen head. This change means crowns no longer pass 
as members of other species. Along with the physical 
changes come increased psychic abilities. Drones operate 
on impulses the hivemind dictates, but crowns have a 
greater degree of autonomy. They can coordinate nearby 
drones to complete complex missions.
Regardless of the age of the host body, yggdrasili 
hosts die of decrepitude after 10 years.
Pharazorthok’s Pawns.
 Yggdrasilis operate at the 
behest of the Aether Kindred, but Pharazorthok doesn’t 
share clear objectives or desires with yggdrasilis. The 
communities yggdrasilis target are often places of little 
obvious value and isolated from the outside world. If the 
yggdrasilis have a goal, only Pharazorthok knows it.
Hivemind.
 The yggdrasili drone is connected to a 
hivemind with all other yggdrasilis, which they use to 
share information. This hivemind means that if the drone 
is aware of a threat, all yggdrasilis within its telepathy 
range are aware of the threat.
Coming from a variety of people, yggdrasilis 
have access to varied sets of skills. If a large group of 
yggdrasilis occupies an area within 1 mile of each other, 
each yggdrasili can add its proficiency bonus to any 
ability check.
Barriers that block Assimilation block this trait.
salvage
An yggdrasili crown’s blood is thick sap that can be 
used to create psychic enchantments. Boiled and cooled 
quickly, the sap hardens into a jewel. Someone who 
has proficiency with alchemist’s supplies can make this 
jewel with 3 days of work, the blood of one yggdrasili 
crown and reagents worth 500 gp, and a successful DC 13 
Intelligence (Nature) check. Someone who has proficiency 
with jeweler’s tools can place the gem in a fine helm or 
fashion it into a ring. The helm becomes a 
helm of telepathy
, 
while the ring is a 
ring of resistance (psychic)
.
Someone who has proficiency with alchemist’s 
supplies or an herbalism kit can instead use the sap 
and reagents worth 100 gp to make three
 potions of 
mind reading
. Making these potions takes 1 day and a 
successful DC 13 Intelligence (Arcana) check.
lore
DC 13 Intelligence (Religion):
 Yggdrasilis are the 
servants of Pharazorthok, an Aether Kindred who can 
