Weeping Zombie
“A mother clutches her three young daughters in the hallway, 
outside a bedroom where a male voice rants in gibberish. She 
lets a masked figure into the room. A shriek precedes silence. 
She thinks she has solved the problem, but a bigger problem 
will rise and return home.”
Evil Begets Evil.
 Weeping zombies are the risen 
corpses of Weeping Pox victims murdered before the 
disease claimed their life. The evil enacted against them 
attracts death energy, and they rise with the need to 
spread the plague for revenge. They have no personality 
or memory of their former lives.
Diseased Transformation.
 Deep lesions score a 
weeping zombie, especially around the mouth. This 
orifice hangs open, dry and shriveled, and the zombie 
gasps unintelligible words as it moves. Once near a 
living body, the weeping zombie rushes in and attempts 
an embrace to spread the disease and consume flesh.
The transformation from the Weeping Pox gives 
a weeping zombie more agility than other undead. 
A weeping zombie also rots much more slowly than 
regular zombies.
Magic Contagion.
 People who practice arcane magic 
can become a weeping zombie with some memory intact. 
These weeping lords can command weeping zombies 
and use them to extract revenge, even if the weeping 
lord doesn’t remember why.
A weeping lord’s eyes have rotted away, leaving 
streams of pus-like tears behind. In undeath, it needs no 
eyes to find the living.
Undead Nature.
 A weeping zombie doesn’t require 
air, food, drink, or sleep.
salvage
Someone who has proficiency in jeweler’s tools can 
fashion the ashes of four weeping lords and other 
materials worth 500 gp into a glass jewel and necklace 
of precious metal, forming an 
amulet of health
. Doing 
so requires 10 days of work and a successful DC 15 
Intelligence (Arcana) check. Somebody must cast the 
bear’s endurance version of 
enhance ability
 on the jewel 
three times during the process.
lore
DC 15 Wisdom (Medicine):
 Rumors say that a person 
who was murdered for having the Weeping Pox might 
rise from the grave for vengeance.
