308
G
rim
 H
ollow
m
onster
 G
rimoire
S
Skinweaver
“I don’t brook with tanners no longer. If ya’ know 
what’s good for you, ya’ won’t ask me why.”
Arachnophobes Beware
. A skinweaver is a hybrid 
humanoid-spider that jumps out of the shadows, the 
clicking of its legs drowned out by the scraping sound 
of twin tanning knives and the soft, crisp lilting of its 
melodic voice as it sings its song of death. Like a spider, 
it weaves silk webs, but its real designs are created from 
the delicately tanned and worked hides of its victims. Its 
lair is unmistakably caustic, the sharp ammonia smell of 
leatherworking chemicals permeating the air.
Master Leatherworkers
. Skinweavers are as proficient 
with the tanning trade as the best humanoid leather-
workers—sometimes better. Their preferred hide is 
humanoid skins. Armored by their own creations, the 
half-human, half-spider creatures encase themselves 
in perfectly cured and stitched leather armor. These 
patchworks are meticulously sewn, tailored to every 
curve and surface on the skinweaver’s body. Their 
minions are similarly outfitted in perfectly tailored 
creations by their spider-like overlords.
Refined and Cultured
. Skinweavers are well-read, 
considering themselves paragons of culture and 
breeding. They collect books written in every language 
and are sometimes willing to trade knowledge with 
visitors—or victims. A deal made by a potential victim 
for its life (in exchange for knowledge) may or not be 
honored; skinweavers are as capricious as they are 
curious. Their leather creations are often dyed and have 
fringes, tassels, or other decorative embellishments that 
make each garment unique.
Three-Dimensional Living
. While they often 
employ ground-bound creatures to serve and protect 
their lairs, skinweavers make use of their living space in 
all three dimensions, often weaving lounges and spaces 
to hang along walls and ceilings: leather hammocks, 
netting, and swings.
Refined Ambush Predators
. While skinweavers feed 
on prey they catch in their webs (or brought to them by 
minions), they develop tastes and desires for specific 
flesh (taste in food) or skins (artistic taste). A skinweaver 
may be close to a particular settlement and go unnoticed 
for years, until it develops a taste for the specific 
humanoids who live there.
salvage
Skinweavers collect valuable artwork and other items 
that display their erudition and refinement. They’re 
never without their custom-made suits of bespoke leather 
armor. This leather is so finely crafted that a suit of armor 
stitched from a skinweaver’s own suit is better than almost 
any other tanner’s creations.
If a proficient armorer or leather worker uses a 
skinweaver’s suit to create a humanoid suit of light 
armor and succeeds on a successful DC 15 Dexterity 
(Nature) check, the armor acts as 
+1 leather armor
 and can 
be donned or doffed as a standard action. This process 
takes 24 hours and requires 250 gp of other components.
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (Arcana)
: A skinweaver is 
resistant to fire damage because of its leathery skin 
and armor.
DC 15 Intelligence (History)
: A skinweaver’s 
terrifying appearance can scare an opponent multiple 
times in the same fight.
