Withered Steed
“Against the lightning, a tan horse dripping tattered flesh rears, 
its antlers and empty skull reflecting the light. Saddleless, it 
lowers its head to pull its master onto its back.”
Rider-Bonded.
 Thought to have originated in Grarjord, 
the withered steed is a rare sight due to the difficulty of 
creating one. Withered steeds are the most loyal of all the 
summoned and created steeds in Etharis, living only as 
long as their creator.
Ritual Creation.
 To create a withered steed, a 
spellcaster must have at least one 4th-level spell slot 
and materials worth 5,000 gp, which the ritual consumes. 
The ritualist must remove and consume a living horse’s 
heart under a full moon. In its place, a living raven 
encaged in tree roots must be inserted. The body must 
be buried with its head removed and a stag skull in its 
place. The creator pours 1 pint of their own blood over 
the body and places a rope necklace inscribed with runes 
of summoning magic placed around the corpse’s throat. 
The ritual takes 6 hours. By the new moon, the withered 
steed frees itself from its grave.
Constructed Nature.
 A withered steed doesn’t 
require air, food, drink, or sleep.
salvage
When a withered steed dies, it becomes a mass of gore 
with a deer skull and a cage containing an undead raven. 
If someone frees the raven and cares for it for 10 days, it 
becomes bound to that person who can then summon it 
with a 
find familiar
 spell, provided the keeper is able to 
cast that spell by some means. This undead raven has 
the Immutable Form trait, and the damage and condition 
immunities of a withered steed.
lore
DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana):
 A withered steed is a con-
struct with related immunities and damage resistances.
DC 20 Intelligence (Arcana):
 The steed’s form 
can’t be changed. If its master is slain, the steed is 
instantly destroyed.
Steeds of Etharis
This entry details several special steeds that are found on 
Etharis. While these mounts are most often encountered 
being ridden by evil enemies, they might be trained and 
used by characters if properly trained and treated well.
