198
G
rim
 H
ollow
m
onster
 G
rimoire
L
Lycanthrope
“During full moons, inhabitants of Etharis stay inside with the 
doors barred and windows tightly shut. Even then, they look at 
those indoors with them with a suspicious eye. One never knows.”
Nighttime Horror
. Travelers who brave the wilds of 
Etharis plan their routes to avoid camping in the wilds on 
nights of the full moon. All know of the savage werewolves 
and other lycanthropes that roam the wilderness in search 
of victims, and few are willing to venture forth for fear of a 
bite from one of these creatures.
Cursed Existence
. Lycanthropy is not a disease, but a 
magical curse that spreads when one of its bearers bites a 
victim. Most lycanthropes live a pained existence, constantly 
at war with the primal instincts that drive them to kill.
Savage Control
. Regions like the Valikan Clans attempt 
to bring the curse under control. The strong druidic 
traditions make strides in dealing with cursed individuals. 
Those in tune with nature sometimes master the beast that 
rages within them, finding a spiritual side that transforms 
the curse into a blessing. But this ability is attainable by 
few, and even then, only after years of training.
Variant Lycanthropes
. The typical presentation 
of lycanthropy leaves its victims dangerous enough, 
but sometimes there are alternate forms, even more 
dangerous than a typical cursed victim.
salvage
Lycanthropes exist in a state of perpetual mental turmoil, 
and over time their memories fragment. As a result, 
many carry keepsakes of their past lives to strengthen 
the memories they do not want to lose. The pelt of a 
lycanthrope is prized by certain mages for the crafting 
of magical cloaks, particularly cloaks that allow a person 
to change their form such as the cloak of the bat or the 
cloak of the manta ray.
Weapons made from the fangs or claws of deceased 
lycanthropes have special properties and are known as 
lycan weapons (see Chapter 4). These weapons require 
a successful DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana) check by a 
proficient weaponsmith, consuming 500 gp worth of 
components, and requiring 10 days of work.
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (Nature)
: Lycanthropy is a common 
affliction in Etharis. The source is a curse that twists mind 
and body into that of a savage beast. Though they can 
change at will, the light of the full moon triggers the 
transformation no matter what.
DC 15 Intelligence (Nature)
: In addition to the normal 
transmission of the curse through the bite of a lycanthrope, 
certain druidic sects also perform rituals to create new 
lycanthropes. This ritual is known as the Lunar Sacrament, 
used as a tool to protect druid groves from invasion.
