178
G
rim
 H
ollow
m
onster
 G
rimoire
K
Knifetooth 
Horde
“The brutes grin, revealing teeth honed to a vicious point, as 
they lope through the fields at the edge of civilization.”
Survival by Slaughter
. When strife strikes the wilds 
of Etharis, those living in the wilderness retreat to 
urban areas. Those unwilling or unable to flee to safety 
do what’s necessary to survive. Most survive through 
cooperation and luck. Occasionally, however, a group 
embraces malevolent forces to stay alive. The Knifetooth 
Horde is one of those latter entities.
The Knifetooth Horde isn’t a name chosen by those within 
the horde. Most speak no language more sophisticated 
than grunts and gestures. The Knifetooth gained their name 
through the filing of their teeth to better eat raw meat. A 
raving band of homicidal brutes, they slaughter any who 
come into their territory, devouring their kills. It’s hard to 
mistake members of the horde—they ritualistically flay, 
mutilate, and pierce themselves and one another.
Might Makes Right
. Most members of the Knifetooth 
Horde are warriors. Hunters, who work in small groups, 
range along the unofficial borders of Knifetooth territory, 
looking for prey. Among the hunters are a few slayers, 
wild and fearless fighters inured to pain. They battle 
as if their purpose in life is to bring ruin to anyone or 
anything outside the horde.
Rarely, a leader who has retained basic language 
skills and the ability to command fear and respect 
surfaces among the Knifetooth Horde. Such warlords 
serve as captains for raiding parties, if the Knifetooths 
used such terms.
Even more rare than warlords, the only Knifetooths 
to command magic are called firebrands. No one knows 
exactly how these warlocks manage to gain their control 
of their purple-tinged fire, but they have learned to use 
their eldritch powers to great destructive effect.
salvage
The tattered, scorched leathers of a Knifetooth firebrand 
can become infused with magic. Cleaning and fitting them 
takes someone who has proficiency with leatherworker’s 
tools 5 days and materials worth 250 gp. The finished 
armor is 
studded leather armor of resistance
 (fire) that also 
confers a +1 bonus to AC.
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (History):
 Members of the 
Knifetooth Horde are the remnants and descendants of 
those who have given into the malevolent supernatural 
forces of Etharis to survive. They are brutal warriors, and 
their warlocks control mystical violet fire.
