140
G
rim
 H
ollow
m
onster
 G
rimoire
G
Grim Piper
“A gentle sound upon the wind,
Crawled beneath my ragged skin,
And pulled me forth against my will,
To darkened alley, my doom fulfill.”
Mysterious Fey
. Grim pipers are wicked fey haunting 
the edges of civilization. They prey on the unwary, 
killing the unfortunates who hear their music. The 
lucky few who’ve survived these encounters have 
difficulty describing the piper’s appearance, but the 
stories are similar: human-looking figures in ragged 
patched clothing of varying colors. Their features remain 
hidden beneath a cowled cloak. The only consistent detail 
most survivors could corroborate is the creature carried 
a dark wooden flute.
Haunting Music
. Pipers use their enchanting music 
to lure victims into darkened alleys where they delight 
in killing. Their haunting melodies can steal a life as 
quickly as the flashing daggers they use when prey resist 
their bewitching tunes.
Sinister Allies.
 The origins of this fey remain unclear. 
Some suggest Arch Daemons called them forth from the 
fey realm to lure mortals to an early death. Others contend 
they are dark fey seeking vengeance for their destroyed 
forests. Though normally loners, pipers sometimes work 
for evil beings on the promise of powerful magic.
salvage
Grim pipers use dark wooden flutes fashioned from 
rare wood grown only in the remote Etharian woods. 
These instruments are of the highest quality, easily 
worth ten times the price of a typical instrument to 
discerning buyers.
Additionally, a grim  piper has a 10% chance to be 
carrying either 
pipes of haunting
 or 
pipes of the sewers, 
chosen by the GM.
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (Performance):
 The piper’s 
insidious melody is filled with dark fey enchantments 
that draw the listener to it.
DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana):
 Once the luring melody 
is resisted, the listener is immune to its enchanting effect 
for a day.
DC 20 Intelligence (Nature):
 In addition to the luring 
melody, the fey can damage the mind using cruel notes 
that make its targets less able to resist its effects.
GM Advice:
 : A grim piper makes a powerful companion for a more 
powerful and hard-hitting creature. This symbiotic relationship sees 
the grim piper neutralizing creatures with its song, allowing the 
powerful partner creature to focus on damaging resisting creatures 
without having too many heroes beating on it in concert.
Grim pipers partnering with spellcasters also amplifies the 
difficulty of a combat encounter. Their song, when it successfully 
targets a creature, makes them more susceptible to spells as 
well. Disadvantage on saving throws can make normally resilient 
characters a little more fragile than normal.
