Parasite Warlock
“Some lose their grasp on reality. Others revel in a 
strange and terrible reality they’ve seen.”
Between Realities.
 Aether Kindred exist in the 
far reaches beyond normal space and time, but they 
aren’t the only entities to inhabit those in-between 
places. Other strange entities writhe and swim in the 
nothingness between stars, hungering for energies 
they can sense just beyond the veil. Occasionally they 
taste freedom when a mage manages to open a thin 
crack, whetting the appetite of these strange beings and 
drawing them toward the known world.
Subtle Infiltrators.
 Contact with the outer cosmos 
is rare, but a seeker of arcane knowledge might briefly 
touch the mind of a creature from that far realm. If that 
creature takes notice, it might be intrigued by the rich 
domain it senses. Such an entity perceives the mortal 
world as a fertile spawning ground, abundant with food 
for its offspring. And so, it sends forth a fragment of its 
will in the form of a larva to worm its way into the mind 
and body of the one foolish enough to contact it.
salvage
A parasite warlock always has a blightworm within. In the 
typical blightworm warlock, the worm is immature and 
unable to live outside the host. Extracting a blightworm 
from the host requires someone who has proficiency in the 
Medicine skill to succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom (Medicine) 
check. The corpses of two such immature blightworms 
or one mature one can be used to create four doses of a 
potion that mimics the 
telepathic bond
 spell for those who 
drink it at the same time while within 30 feet of each other 
and are willing to participate in the bond. Making this 
potion requires the blightworm or worms, reagents worth 
250 gp, 8 hours of work, and a successful DC 15 Intelligence 
or Wisdom check.
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (Arcana):
 Parasite warlocks draw 
their power from a parasitic creature dwelling within them. 
The parasite, known as a blightworm, is from some other 
plane of existence.
