218
G
rim
 H
ollow
m
onster
 G
rimoire
M
Mjorks
“Is it just me, or does the darkness seem thicker? 
And did it just get really warm in here?”
Sootling Spawned.
 Where the powers of fire and 
earth meet, sparks of elemental energy can ignite a 
faint light of sentience between the two elements. 
These sootlings are amorphous creatures, folding and 
stretching into various beastlike shapes. If allowed 
to thrive between the elements of fire and earth, the 
sootling eventually grows into a mjork unless magic 
keeps its development halted.
Volcanic Elementals.
 A mjork is a creature as filled 
with chaos as the fires that fueled it, and as solid as 
the rock that gave it shape. The elemental looks like a 
humanoid of volcanic rock, moving with a jagged, stilted 
gait. Small cracks accent its surface, revealing a pulsating 
flame within. Heat emanates from the mjork’s body, 
burning those who come too close and leaving singed, 
sooty tracks where it moves.
As they grow larger, mjorks specialize. Some focus 
on their solid, rocky shape and charging through foes. 
Others emphasize fire, allowing their internal flames to 
sheathe the body. Still others embrace smoke and ash. 
Some of these ashers grow from sootlings who barely 
survived their emergence and became attached to their 
sooty origins.
A World of Ash.
 Mjorks have a narrow worldview, 
having been raised in the grind and heat of volcanic 
stone. To them, the environment they spawned from is 
the only place of safety they have known, and they wish 
to spread it across the world. To bring about this ideal, 
mjorks wander sparsely inhabited areas where they 
spread fires and watch the world around them burn. 
These expeditions of destruction last until the mjork 
returns to the volcanic area that gave it life.
Elemental Nature.
 A mjork doesn’t require food, 
drink, or sleep.
salvage
Within every mjork is a heart of ash hardened into 
smoky crystal. This crystal might already be broken in 
the remains of a slain mjork, making it useless. An intact 
crystal can be broken or hurled at a point up to 60 feet 
away as an action. When it breaks, which it does upon 
landing if hurled, the crystal releases a 20-foot-radius 
sphere of sooty smoke, centered on a point in the breaker’s 
space or on the point where the crystal landed. The 
smoke spreads around corners, and its area is heavily 
obscured. It lasts for 1 minute, but a moderate wind (at 
least 10 miles per hour) disperses it in 4 rounds. A strong 
wind (20 or more miles per hour) disperses the smoke in 
1 round. These crystals sell for 15gp or more each.
The smaller crystals from sootlings or broken mjork 
crystals are like smoky quartz. These gems can be worth 
from 1 sp to 1 gp each, or more to collectors who believe 
they are mjork crystals. Someone who polishes them 
using jeweler’s tools can increase their value as 
semiprecious stones.
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (Nature):
 Mjorks are made from 
earth and fire clashing together. These elementals often 
dwell near volcanoes.
DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana):
 Mjorks are vulnerable 
to thunder damage, which cracks their rocky skin. They 
can also sense through smoke as if the haze provided 
them blindsight.
