195
G
rim
 H
ollow
m
onster
 G
rimoire
L
Living Toxin
“Makes me sick just thinking about it. The blasted thing swept 
right up into the smithy, and next thing we knew, she was on 
the ground, rolling and screaming.”
Manufactured Menaces.
 A living toxin is an ooze at 
the pinnacle of the poisoner’s art. It’s poison that delivers 
itself to the victim. Living toxins are usually found around 
cities, hiding in sewers, and sliding along back alleys.
Each living toxin begins as a mixture of poisons and 
alchemical ingredients. Whether by accident or ill intent, 
the mixture gains a semblance of life and often turns on 
its creator. The ooze escapes through the nearest grating 
or window, seeking out places to hide and hunt.
Invasive Species.
 When a living creature comes along, 
the ooze displays its most sinister trait. It launches itself at 
its victim’s face and tries to force its way inside their body. 
Once there, the toxin attacks the body from within. After 
the interior is liquefied, the ooze escapes from the corpse.
Ooze Nature.
 A living toxin doesn’t require sleep.
salvage
A living toxin breaks down into harmless goo once 
slain. Someone who has proficiency with alchemist’s 
supplies or an herbalism kit can combine the goo with 
other reagents or herbs worth 50 gp to create two doses 
of 
restorative ointment
. Doing so requires 8 hours of work 
and a successful DC 10 Intelligence or Wisdom check. 
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (Arcana):
 Living toxins are 
poisonous mixtures given life. A living toxin attempts 
to force itself inside a host, attacking from within.
DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana):
 Effects that cure 
poisoning are highly effective against a living toxin.
GM Advice:
 It’s not too difficult to imagine the existence of a 
sentient living toxin, capable of infecting a host but choosing 
when to inflict the poison damage instead of doing so automati-
cally. Such a creature, if given the ability to communicate with a 
host telepathically, could blackmail a host into doing its bidding. 
Such creatures could serve evil masters.
