222
G
rim
 H
ollow
m
onster
 G
rimoire
M
Morbus Kobolds
“If a group of lions is called a pride, a group of 
morbus kobolds is called an infection.”
Health Hazards.
 Across Etharis, and particularly in 
the city-state of Liesech, kobolds are associated with 
vermin and plague. Sewer-dwelling kobolds, known 
as morbus kobolds by the few scholars who study such 
beings, seem immune to the diseases they carry. Worse, 
these kobolds move from region to region spreading 
outbreaks. If a gathering of morbus kobolds is found in 
a sewer system, where they prefer to take up residence, 
local officials are quick to put a bounty on the creatures 
before they bring about a health crisis.
Fervent Filth Followers.
 Morbus kobolds worship 
the Filth Grazer, a creature they claim blessed morbus 
kobolds with resilience against plague and other ailments 
on the condition that they helped spread the diseases they 
carry. Morbus kobolds believe that commitment to spread 
plagues did not end with their ancestors, but that the 
blessing must be renewed. This dogma allowed morbus 
kobolds to flourish at the expense of other people.
Guided by their beliefs, morbus kobolds live in nomadic 
clans. These clans stop in a settlement long enough to 
infect locals with diseases from other regions, contract 
local diseases, then move on. Morbus kobolds consider it 
a point of pride when their efforts produce a pandemic, 
particularly if the disease is as severe as the Weeping Pox.
Morbus kobolds obsess about losing the Filth Grazer’s 
blessing. If a morbus kobold expresses doubts about 
spreading disease or the existence of the Filth Grazer, 
they face banishment or worse. Most loyally spend their 
days wallowing in filth, training giant rats, and carrying 
out plots to spread infection.
Kobold Kin.
 Built like other kobolds, morbus kobolds 
stand out with their jaundice and webbed feet. Some 
morbus kobolds have functioning gills, a trait these 
kobolds believe signifies the Filth Grazer’s favor. 
One can often smell a morbus kobold before seeing it, 
owing to their sewer homes and filthy habits.
Morbus kobolds who survive long enough become elders. 
These elders show cosmetic signs of diseases they’ve carried 
over their lifetime, such as bloodshot eyes, discolored 
skin, and raspy voices punctuated with coughing fits. 
Disease growths protrude from an elder’s body, each a 
mark of worthiness in morbus kobold beliefs.
salvage
Someone who has proficiency with Medicine can attempt 
a DC 13 Wisdom (Medicine) check to extract the largest 
tumor from a morbus kobold elder. If this check succeeds, 
someone who has proficiency with alchemist’s supplies 
or an herbalism kit can wrap the tumor with herbs and 
reagents worth 200 gp. The wrapped tumor must be 
left in open air so it receives daily sunlight for 7 days. 
Someone must cast 
lesser restoration 
on the tumor during 
this time. At the end of the process, the tumor can be 
polished and set in a necklace, making a 
periapt of health
.
lore
DC 13 Intelligence (Nature):
 Morbus kobolds are 
a known for spreading disease. Despite their role in 
propagating contagions, they are immune to the effects 
of all known diseases.
DC 13 Intelligence (History):
 The first documented 
record of an encounter with a morbus kobold was in 
the city of Liesech during the early days of the Weeping 
Pox. Shortly after this encounter, the Weeping Pox began 
spreading in nearby regions.
DC 16 Wisdom (Medicine):
 The largest tumors in 
morbus kobold elders can be treated then dried in 
sunlight to create a ward against diseases.
