Ogresh Vampire
“The massive creature filled the room, its face just visible amid 
folds of noxious flesh. Then it smiled. It was a brilliant smile, 
with just a hint of malice. And when it spoke, it offered secrets, 
but at what cost?”
Gluttony Scions.
 An ogresh feels a natural desire 
to settle into an area that can support their immense 
appetite. The curse of vampirism enhances this desire 
to monstrous proportions. An ogresh vampire risks 
consuming everything around them, leaving a region 
barren for years to come. They grow large and corpulent. 
If left to their own devices, they can become so large that 
standard buildings can no longer accommodate them. 
Still, their movement isn’t impeded, and so witnessing 
an ogresh vampire charging is memorable and terrifying.
Vicious Feeders.
 An ogresh vampire relishes 
consumption, especially consuming a sapient creature. 
Other vampires prefer to feast on blood, but an ogresh 
vampire prefers flesh, bone, and marrow.
Deviant Socialite.
 Ogresh set down deep social roots 
as they age, and those rare few that contract vampirism 
are no different. They work a complex series of deals and 
trades, ranging from goods to secrets and everything in 
between. However, their longevity, combined with the 
lengthy maturation period as a vampire, leads them to 
appear youthful for many more decades than normal. This 
appearance can cause others to underestimate an ogresh 
vampire at inopportune moments.
Grandiose Plans
. Nothing about an ogresh vampire 
is small. They plan extensively, with backup plans, and 
backup plans for those backup plans.
salvage
Ogresh vampires are likely to hide treasure in their 
folds of flesh. They also have a specialized bile that 
can be harvested. Someone who has proficiency in the 
Medicine skill can siphon this bile with a successful DC 
13 Wisdom (Medicine) check and 10 minutes of work. 
Doing so successfully produces five doses of the bile. In 
its raw form, with 1 minute of application time, the bile 
masks the scent of a creature, meaning other creatures 
have disadvantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that 
rely on smell to detect the creature coated in bile.
This bile also masks poisons in a similar fashion. 
A creature that tries to detect the poison with smell 
has disadvantage on the check to do so. If mixed with 
an ingested poison and consumed, this bile has the effect 
of any consumed vampire part.
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (History):
 An ogresh’s natural 
charm lends itself well to the curse of vampirism. Planning, 
coercion, bribes, and gluttony come easily to them.
DC 15 Intelligence (Religion):
 Vampirism makes a 
creature more of what they are, and an ogresh is rarely 
interested in small or short-term thoughts. An ogresh 
vampire grows larger than their mortal kin. And a beast 
form like that of other vampires is beneath a creature 
who places importance on reason and charm.
DC 20 Intelligence (Arcana):
 An ogresh vampire 
can grow so large that they seem too big for their home. 
This appearance is deceptive. The vampire might be 
slightly less nimble, but it is as or more dangerous than 
other vampires. And the vampire can move about its 
home in mist form.
