Memori Lich
“Some find honor in a warrior’s death, but others seek an 
everlasting place among those who fight on in undeath.”
Beyond Death.
 A warrior who seeks lichdom does so 
in pursuit of glory in battle beyond death. These skilled 
fighters enter a bargain with an evil entity to evade the 
afterlife. Unlike wizards who seek arcane knowledge in 
their immortality, a warrior desires unmatched strength 
and prowess in battle. The arcane transformation causes 
a memori lich’s physical form to decay but, in exchange, 
the undead form has supernatural strength and can call 
up fire to divide the battlefield. As with spellcasting 
liches that have individualized magical talents, each 
memori lich is unique.
Memento Skull.
 To transcend death, a warrior drinks a 
toxic concoction mixed with the blood of a powerful crea-
ture poured into the skull of a defeated enemy. Drinking 
the fluid causes immediate death and transformation into 
a memori lich, whose soul is pulled into the skull.
The memento skull must be fed to sustain its magic. 
When a memori lich slays an opponent, the opponents 
fleeting spiritual energy feeds the memento skull through 
the memori lich. Most memori liches prefer stronger 
foes who have skills the lich can learn by consuming the 
stored energy.
A Memori Lich’s Lair
A memori lich might haunt an ancient battlefield or 
a fortress from which it can lead undead soldiers.
salvage
A memori lich’s skull can be a primary component for 
a 
mace of disruption
. Someone who has proficiency with 
smith’s tools can incorporate the skull into the mace, 
which takes 10 days and other materials worth 2,000 gp 
to make. The mace must also have 
dispel evil and good
 cast 
on it at least three times during its making.
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (History):
 A memori lich 
is a warrior who became immortal through 
eldritch means.
DC 15 Intelligence (Religion):
 A memori lich 
has supernatural strength and prowess, along 
with resistances common to the undead. It 
takes magic weapons to effectively hurt one, 
and its form can’t be changed.
DC 25 Intelligence (Arcana):
 The 
magic that sustains a memori lich 
lies within a relic called a me-
mento skull. To permanently 
kill the lich, one must 
destroy the skull.
