Primordial Troll
“What’s worse than a troll? 
A smart troll with elemental powers!”
Nature Incarnates.
 Trolls infused with elemental 
forces serve the primordials. These primordial trolls are 
more cunning than their troll cousins, and their elemental 
nature affects their regeneration. Each type of primordial 
troll has abilities based on the primordial the trolls serve 
or have connections to.
Fireborn.
 Favored by Lady Morakesh, fireborn trolls 
have a similar mercurial temperament. Their black eyes 
flash red when the troll is angered, in stark contrast to 
their charred, warty skin.
Small clans of fireborn trolls can be found in mountainous 
regions across Etharis, but they’re most common around 
Mount Vengeance and in the mist-covered expanse of 
southern Charneault. Fireborn trolls have been seen accompa-
nying elves traveling to the Temple of the Mists, though 
the elves haven’t said why.
Fireborn trolls fight with their fangs and claws, 
like their normal kin, but a fireborn troll has a body 
hot enough to burn other creatures. Their leaders can 
summon magic flame and throw fiery spells at all who 
threaten them.
Seaborn.
 As with their Primordial Lord Alondo, seaborn 
trolls prefer to be left alone. Their small familial communes 
are hidden along remote storm-wracked coasts, where 
the trolls hunt the waters.
Seaborn troll skin ranges from slate blue to mossy 
green. They are built to easily navigate surging coastal 
tides. Among the waves, they hunt using wicked claws 
and an acidic bite.
The most powerful seaborn trolls wield powers of 
acid and mist. They can conjure thick and sometimes 
caustic fog. These seaborn trolls spit acid at foes before 
disappearing into the mists.
Stoneborn.
 Rarely seen on the surface, stoneborn 
trolls are native to the underground realm of Stonereach. 
Therein, they grudgingly pledge fealty to Citrolach, 
lord of the underground realms, but their contemplatives 
ponder an existence unbeholden to the primordial 
lord’s stubbornness.
Stoneborn trolls are hulking, musclebound creatures 
sheathed in grey, warty skin as tough as rock. Their 
claws and teeth are harder than normal, as well, and can 
sheer through metal and flesh.
Contemplative stoneborn trolls lead small clans of 
stoneborn. Though introspective, they aren’t pacifists. 
Numerous unfortunate explorers who stumbled into the 
giant’s territory have discovered that fact.
Windborn.
 Ilhara, the Queen of Air and Shadow, has 
a dedicated following of windborn trolls. They carry 
powerful confidence in their stormy souls. Windborn trolls 
are impatient to help their matron ascend to control Etharis.
Mighty windborn can twist shadows, creating minor 
illusions to trick their enemies. The coloring of their 
smooth skin adjusts to their surroundings, making them 
difficult to spot and find. These infiltrators subtly pursue 
Ilhara’s agenda. However, if subterfuge fails, they are 
cunning fighters who can hurl lightning.
salvage
Nodules inside primordial trolls empower them with 
elemental traits. Someone who has proficiency in the 
Arcana or Medicine skill can extract these “organs” with 
a successful DC 13 Intelligence (Arcana) or Wisdom 
(Medicine) check. Somebody who has proficiency with 
alchemist’s supplies can take the nodules from one troll, 
along with other reagents worth 100 gp, to refine an 
elixir 
of elemental spittle
 (see chapter 4). Making one elixir takes 
1 day of work.
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (Nature):
 Most primordial trolls 
have natural weapons empowered with elemental 
damage. Stoneborn trolls don’t, but their strength and 
resilience make up for this lack.
DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana):
 Powerful primordial trolls 
have magical abilities tied to their ancestry and traditions.
DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana or Nature):
 Only the 
windborn troll’s regeneration is sensitive to acid and fire 
like normal trolls. Cold and acid damage affect fireborn 
trolls, while seaborn trolls are susceptible to fire and 
magical cold. And acid and thunder temporarily shut 
down a stoneborn troll’s regeneration.
