17
G
rim
 H
ollow
m
onster
 G
rimoire
A
salvage
Inquisitors carry fine armaments and religious trappings. 
Seraph iconography is common, as is holy water. Some 
members carry trinkets of religious significance such 
as angel feathers or silver boxes holding the ashes of 
martyrs. Some carry magical arms and armor, such as 
armor of resistance 
and 
vicious weapons
. Traveling inquisitors 
carry the book of Arcanist Inquisition dogma.
Lord Inquisitor Crevax has her magic equipment. 
She also carries the only master key to the Cathedral of 
Embers, as well as a map of the facility.
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (Religion):
 The founder of the Ar-
canist Inquisition claims that the Arch Seraph Empyreus 
said that magic is dangerous, corrupt, and corrupting. 
People of the Castinellan Provinces hold this belief to be 
true, and the sentiment has spread beyond that region.
The majority of the Arcanist Inquisition comprises 
soldiers from the Castinellan provinces, including 
many dragonborn. Their task is to seek out and punish 
magic-users.
DC 15 Intelligence (History):
 Any suspected arcanist 
or associate of a suspected mage who publicly declares 
allegiance to Empyreus and confesses to crimes against 
the divine order can request judgment from a speaker for 
the Arch Seraph. If they do so, inquisitors are obligated 
to take the individual to the Cathedral of Embers for 
trial rather than passing judgment and meting out 
punishment as they normally would.
DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana):
 The Cathedral of Embers, 
headquarters of the Arcanist Inquisition, is a well-known 
prison for suspected arcanists awaiting trial or serving 
a sentence. Less known is that the complex also contains 
an enormous collection of magic items, kept locked away. 
The inquisition is concerned as much with keeping the 
items safe as sequestering their potential influence.
DC 20 Intelligence (Religion):
 Trained to root out 
secrets, some inquisitors have special blessings that 
allow them to pierce illusions and uncover deceit. 
Their devotion leads them to pursue their foes despite 
personal risk, making them difficult to evade.
GM Advice:
 While the Arcanist Inqusition, like any fanatical 
organization, can do both good and evil depending on the 
individuals involved and the details of the situation, the 
organization as a whole tends toward evil. Good organizations care 
about each and every case that comes before them, and work. hard 
to ensure that innocents are never injured, even if that means a few 
guilty parties go free. The Arcanist Inquisition is the opposite: they 
are content if a few innocent people are imprisoned or killed if it 
means no guilty escape. Because of this, characters should often find 
themselves on the hostile side of an inquisitionists wrath.
On the other hand, unscrupulous or morally gray characters might 
find the Arcanist Inquisition a convenient ally in certain situations. 
Characters will always find arcanists willing allies in a conflict against
evil-doers who employ arcane means to gain and hold power. 
