60
G
rim
 H
ollow
m
onster
 G
rimoire
C
Chapped Brute
“The callused skin of the merchant’s hulking bodyguard 
ripples as if something beneath is trying to wriggle free.”
Mutated Skin
. Chapped brutes are hulking humanoids 
altered by malign magic and forbidden alchemical 
compounds to create inhuman bodyguards and enforcers. 
They are so named because of their skin, which has been 
mutated into hairless calluses. This hide is so thick that its 
folds have compressed the brute’s eyes and mouth to such 
a degree that it can no longer see or speak. The skin pulses 
with veins and shifts unnaturally, showing evidence of 
continued mutation.
Valued Bodyguards
. Because of their prodigious 
strength and extraordinary resistance to damage, chapped 
brutes act as bodyguards for alchemists or wealthy patrons 
with the means to keep them docile.
Constant Flux
. Rumors abound of some chapped brutes 
unexpectedly undergoing hideous transformations into 
other forms. Because of the unstable state of the chapped 
brute’s physiology, their bodily fluids and organs are highly 
prized for mutagenic qualities.
Awakened Potential
. When a chapped brute would 
die, on rare occasions, its body splits lengthwise along its 
limbs and swells in size, muscles and viscera peeking out 
through shredded skin. This transformation drives the 
creature beyond reason. In this form, a brute can distend 
sagging limbs into long tentacles.
On the rarest occasions, an awakened brute might 
transform yet again, leaving behind all ties to humanoid 
origins. The brute grows again. It becomes a pulsating 
mass of ravening flesh.
salvage
Chapped brutes rarely carry treasure or equipment unless 
doing so as instructed by their master. An accomplished 
leatherworker can fashion the callused skin of a chapped 
brute into 
+1
armor
—leather, studded leather, or hide—
that grants the wearer resistance to necrotic damage and 
doesn’t require attunement. This armor takes 10 extra 
days of work to fashion, and magical components worth 
100 gp must be expended in its creation.
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (Arcana):
 The magical and 
alchemical process that creates these brutes leaves them 
resistant to necrotic damage.
DC 15 Intelligence (Nature):
 These beings are so 
volatile because of their creation process that when they 
are killed, they have a chance to transform into larger, 
deadlier forms. 
DC 20 Wisdom (Medicine): 
The final form of the 
chapped brute has a life force that fluctuates, so that it 
randomly gains and loses life force every few seconds.
