0
237
G
rim
 H
ollow
m
onster
 G
rimoire
Oblivion Stalkers
“If you hear the strange, low whistling in the darkness, run! 
They whistle before they strike, striding out of the darkness, 
hungry for the souls of the living.”
Beings of Shadow
. The learned theorize that oblivion 
stalkers are related to shadows, sharing traits manifest-
ing from the same dark corners of reality. It’s a fair point; 
these foul undead are similarly strange, crawling from 
the dark to feed upon the living. Lacking the fluid nature 
of shadows, they are a more overt threat—a legion 
marching forth from nothingness.
Strange Behaviors
. Oblivion stalkers are creatures of 
strange fixations and dark rituals. These beings whistle, 
sing, or howl before they strike, and they attack only 
those who hear those sounds, though it’s uncertain how 
the stalkers could know such a thing. Oblivion stalkers 
don’t harm children, though they have left countless 
orphans. Among animals, oblivion stalkers feed only 
on canines such as wolves.
Always More Than One
. Oblivion stalkers come at 
least in pairs, favoring trios and sometimes hunting 
in sizable packs. This habit isn’t a preference, though. 
Oddly, if a pack of oblivion stalkers is reduced to a 
single member, the remaining creature often dissipates 
into nothingness.
Diverse Forms
. Oblivion stalkers appear as a shadowy 
and hazy version of how they appeared in life. The 
larger the oblivion stalker, the more powerful. When the 
stalker kills a living creature, its essence manifests in the 
shadowy corners of the multiverse and join the ranks of 
these horrors. However, the process is not immediate. 
Small stalkers typically take the form of dogs or small 
humanoids. Larger stalkers can take on a multitude of 
forms, but share similar abilities.
Undead Nature
. An oblivion stalker doesn’t require 
air, food, drink, or sleep.
salvage
There is a 25% chance that an oblivion stalker leaves 
behind a gemstone when it is defeated. These stones are 
worth between 10 and 500 gp, depending on the size 
of the creature. There is a 10% chance that one of these 
stones acts as a magnet to additional oblivion stalkers, 
which appear and attack the holder of the gem at mid-
night during a new moon. A remove curse makes the 
gemstone safe.
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (History):
 An oblivion stalker 
is at disadvantage in daylight.
DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana):
 An oblivion stalker 
is vulnerable to radiant damage and resistant to 
nonmagical weapons.
DC 20 Intelligence (Religion):
 If an oblivion stalker 
kills a mortal, it’s believed that mortal joins their 
shadowy ranks.
Customizing Oblivion Stalkers
Since oblivion stalkers can drain almost any living 
creature’s energy, they can take just about any form. 
Some oblivion stalkers retain the natural abilities of their 
original form. For instance, an oblivion stalker that was 
once a wolf might retain the Pack Tactics trait. Similarly, 
a boar could possess a version of Charge, draining its 
prey while adding slashing damage and the possibility 
of knocking their victim prone.
Keep one special ability that makes sense for a crea-
ture of the stalker’s former form without affecting the 
Challenge of the stalker. Avoid bestowing an oblivion 
stalker any ability that is magical, grants the stalker a 
ranged attack, or expands its resistances or immunities.
