Chiropteran Behemoth
“They say the monster flies on silent wings in a 
shroud of darkness and can’t be killed. But those 
who’ve seen it can’t say anything anymore.”
Unkillable Legend.
 Rumors of the chiropteran behemoth 
are just that. The batlike monster is said to be the size 
of a house, as silent as the breeze, and unkillable. The 
only verified account of a chiropteran behemoth describes 
one that serves Grand Duke Koshevek of Soma, lairing 
beneath the dome of the Vonsantra Cathedral. Sages posit 
that if one behemoth can be created, others can.
Unstoppable Servant.
 Chiropteran behemoths serve 
their creators with undying devotion, following orders to 
completion. The ritual creating a chiropteran behemoth 
allows the creator to know where its servant’s location 
at all times. While its natural weapons are dangerous, its 
ear-splitting shriek is more so. The bat-monster can also 
unleash a sphere of darkness that doesn’t hinder its senses.
Undoing Elixir.
 Unfortunately for the forces of good 
and light, the rumors of the chiropteran behemoth’s 
immortality are true. The beast returns to life unless 
exposed to an elixir of rare components, including its 
own guano. Gaining access to this last ingredient is the 
challenge, made even greater if the behemoth’s master 
knows its vulnerability.
salvage
To make one dose of an 
undoing elixir
 that can render 
a chiropteran behemoth vulnerable to death, its guano 
must be mixed with other reagents worth 250 gp. 
Someone who has proficiency with alchemist’s supplies 
must brew the mixture for 3 days. As an action, someone 
can splash a dose onto a behemoth if it’s within 5 feet 
or throw a vial of it up to 20 feet, the vial shattering on 
impact. In either case, the attacker makes a ranged attack 
against the behemoth, treating the vial as an improvised 
weapon. On a hit, the behemoth takes 7 (2d6) radiant 
damage and its regeneration temporarily ceases.
The chiropteran behemoth’s two canines are good 
for making a 
rapier
 or
 shortsword of life stealing
. Making 
the weapon requires someone who has proficiency with 
smith’s tools to work for 7 days and use materials worth 
1,500 gp along with the two upper canines from the 
behemoth. Somebody must cast 
vampiric touch
 on the 
fangs three times during the process.
Claws of a chiropteran behemoth can be used to make 
a unique 
vorpal sword
. Crafting the sword requires the 
remnants of the behemoth and other rare components 
worth 25,000 gp. Someone who has proficiency with 
smith’s tools must work with someone who has proficiency 
with alchemist’s supplies to create the weapon over 30 days. 
Somebody must also cast 
power word kill
 on the weapon 
each day of its making.
