Blood Tracker
“People associate evil predators with the howling of a wolf or 
the flapping of bat wings. The real sound of terror is the quiet 
snuffling of a blood tracker.”
Tainted Blood.
 Vampires and blood mages can feed hunt-
ing dogs necromantically tainted blood and meat to create 
monstrous blood trackers. A blood tracker changes from a 
normal canine into a large and growth-ridden monster, its 
nose transformed into a star-shaped appendage, like that of a 
mole. The diet turns the dog into a murderous monster.
Blood Bound
. Those who create and raise blood trackers 
can feed the creatures their blood. In doing so, a bond 
forms like the bond between a mage and a familiar. Only 
one creature can bind a blood tracker in this way.
salvage
Blood from a blood tracker bound to a master can be used 
to make an antidote to that master’s powers. Someone 
who has proficiency with alchemist’s supplies or an 
herbalism kit must mix the blood with herbs worth 50 gp. 
Tradition holds that a good-hearted priest must pray 
over the mixture as it brews for 4 hours. The brewer must 
succeed on a DC 13 Intelligence or Wisdom check to 
make the brew, and the priest allows that roll to be made 
with advantage if they succeed on a DC 15 Intelligence or 
Wisdom (Religion) check (priest’s choice). The resulting 
antidote means the target can’t be charmed, frightened, or 
possessed by the master for 1 hour. If a target is already 
charmed, frightened, or possessed by such a creature, 
the target can make a new saving throw with advantage, 
ending such effects on a success. The target also has 
advantage on other saving throws it makes against such 
effects while the antidote lasts. Regardless, the antidote 
suppresses the effects for the hour the antidote is active.
lore
DC 15 Intelligence (Nature):
 A blood tracker was 
once a normal dog, but a vampire or other being adept 
in blood magic altered it.
DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana):
 Blood trackers are 
supernaturally gifted trackers. One might share a 
telepathic bond with the monster that created and 
trained it. The blood tracker’s bite saps life force, and 
its bay rattles the innards and the senses.
