250
G
rim
 H
ollow
m
onster
 G
rimoire
P
Panjaian
“Instilled with the power of the Primordials, 
panjaians are literal forces of nature.”
Elemental Gifts.
 When the Primordials need champions 
and emissaries, they empower mortals with their elemental 
blessings, exalting them into panjaians. These panjaians 
bridge the gap between elemental and humanoid. Most 
panjaians look vaguely human with hair, eyes, and skin 
tones that reflect their elemental affinity.
When fighting on behalf of their Primordial patron, 
a panjaian could never be mistaken for a normal mortal. 
They weaponize the elements. Towers of flame, rising 
walls of earth, grasping tendrils of water, and lightning 
arcing from outstretched fingertips are the chosen 
weapons of an enraged panjaian.
Once a humanoid becomes a panjaian, their patron 
can’t undo the process. Most panjaian’s loyally serve 
their masters, allying with those who share the same 
creator. But if a threat is dire, or a quest critical, panjaians 
empowered by different Primordials work together to 
ensure success.
Primordial Servants.
 Each panjaian is tied to a specific 
Primordial. Alondons serve the Lord of the Depths, 
Alondo. Morakeshi are the chosen of Lady Morakesh, 
ruler of Flamebourne and of fire. Empowered by the 
Living Mountain, Citrolach, citrolachi have mastery over 
earth and stone. Servants of the Queen of Air and Shadow, 
Ilhara, ilharans wield the power of wind and storm.
Although they vary as humanoids do, panjaians have 
tendencies related to their element. Alondons prefer 
to remain neutral unless the outcomes are serious or 
impact them directly. Morakeshi are as charismatic as 
they are quick tempered. Citrolachi are the most stoic 
of the panjaians and the least likely to act out of impulse 
or passion. Ilharans are far more likely to act as spies 
and saboteurs than soldiers.
Return of the King.
 Within the last decade, panjaians 
with the ability to manipulate coldfire—a swiftly spreading, 
freezing, blue flame that plagues Grarjord—have reappeared 
in the world. These servants of Gormadraug frighten 
other Primordials. Many speculate the reemergence of 
these panjaians is a sign of Gormadraug’s return.
But the origins of the panjaian gormadraugons are 
unknown to those outside their ranks. Their presumed 
patron, Gormadraug, has been dormant for some time, 
and the gormadraugons aren’t sharing their origins. 
Pariahs among other panjaians, gormadraugons’ motives 
are as enigmatic as their existence.
salvage
Someone who has proficiency in Medicine can attempt a 
DC 13 Wisdom (Medicine) check to remove a panjaian’s 
heart intact. Somebody who has proficiency with alchemist’s 
supplies can treat the heart with reagents worth 100 gp 
in a process that takes 3 days and a successful DC 13 
Intelligence or Wisdom check. This process, if successful, 
hardens the heart into an 
elemental gem
: blue sapphire for 
