69
G
rim
 H
ollow
m
onster
 G
rimoire
C
salvage
Some artisans prize a coral grazer’s beaks, which can 
make fine, sharp, and unusual blades. The beaks from 
one larva can fetch 50 gp, and those from an adult up 
to 200 gp.
Someone who has proficiency in the Medicine skill can 
extract an adult coral grazer’s eye in perfect condition 
with a successful DC 17 Wisdom (Medicine) check. Treat-
ed three times with a 
flesh to stone
 spell and special oils 
worth 1,000 gp per casting, the eye shrinks and works like 
a 
crystal ball
, provided the caster makes a successful DC 13 
Intelligence (Arcana) check with each casting.
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (Nature):
 Coral grazers are 
dangerous tentacled beasts that tear apart coral and 
similar material for food.
DC 15 Intelligence (Nature):
 An adult coral grazer’s 
presence can cause paralyzing fear. Although the grazer 
eats little flesh, it often takes a chunk of a paralyzed 
creature to get to its delicious bones. The adult can also 
attract larvae in the area to join it in feasting and fighting.
GM Advice:
 While a coral grazer is at home in the coastal 
waters of the lands of Etharis, they can be captured and trained 
by evil-doers to acts as guards and thugs. Little is as terrifying 
as a moated lair of an enemy that is also full of coral grazers. 
In fact, some coral grazers have been gifted with the power of 
magical flight, making them extremely effective and dangerous 
hunters, even out of water.
The paralyzing fright caused by a coral grazer makes them 
terribly dangerous against those creatures who fail their saving 
throws. However, higher-level characters who are immune to 
fear, or who boost others with a fear-negating ability, make this 
paralyzing fright irrelevant. That’s why it’s important, when you 
want to challenge a powerful party, to take down those characters 
or separate them from their allies during a coral grazer attack. 
A dispel magic to remove the effects of a heroes’ feast is also 
strategically beneficial. 
