176
G
rim
 H
ollow
m
onster
 G
rimoire
K
Keppmir
“Sailors are warned to be wary when they sail near Thrull in the 
cold north of Grarjord. It’s not the people above the water that 
they worry about, but what hides under unusually warm waters.”
Harsh Origins.
 Hundreds of years ago, the clan 
Keppmir tried to make a living off the unyielding land. 
The settlers found meager fishing and game, few crops 
could grow, and little wood made the cold a daily 
challenge. After ten seasons, the king of the clan turned 
to praying to Gormadraug. He encouraged his people to 
do so, thinking that the Great Prismatic Wyrm would be 
impressed with their dedication and fervor.
The prayers were heard, but the people were deceived. 
A powerful daemon appeared and claimed to be the 
avatar of Gormadraug. The king pleaded with the avatar, 
asking to keep his people warm and fed. The price was 
high—the avatar demanded all the children of the 
settlement. The people thought that they could renegotiate 
for the children once they were comfortable, and an 
agreement was reached.
Horrid Transformation.
 Each member of the clan 
clasped arms with the avatar. At the last, as the king 
gripped the avatar, hope quickly changed to pain. The 
people fell to the ground, clutching their legs as they 
transformed into long, fishlike tails. Chains sprang from 
the ground and wrapped tightly around each lower tor-
so, embedding into the red scales. Four horns sprouted 
from every head, and their teeth grew into fangs.
As they felt suffocation creeping in, the avatar 
directed them to the water. It calmly explained they 
would always be warm in the water. They could eat 
anything, including each other, to make sure that they 
were never lacking in food. The avatar granted them 
long lives to remember the price they paid.
Infernal Predators.
 Memory of the Keppmir clan fad-
ed, leaving only monsters behind. The king and his people 
actively hunt in the northern waters, devouring anything 
that crosses their path, including unfortunate sailors.
Most keppmirs wait for their elite hunters to attack. 
These stalkers are skilled warriors and wear armor from 
whale bones. They have mastered hiding in dark waters, 
and they coordinate attacks on large ships, closing in 
silently and communicating with hand gestures. When 
the stalkers attack, other keppmirs dive after meat falling 
to the ocean floor.
Keppmirs are capable of speech and might negotiate. 
But the influence of their infernal contract has twisted 
them into beings loath to enter bargains.
Keppmir King.
 The Keppmir King lives on. His tribe 
has ebbed and flowed over the years, but he hasn’t aged. 
He vacillates between pride in keeping his tribe alive and 
the guilt of the price they paid. But if any of his people 
are harmed, he reacts brutally.
