Ebon Knight
“They looked like clouds of dark smoke rolling 
across the ground toward us. But those hoofbeats 
and ebony lances were real as death.”
Evil Martyrs.
 Paladins who bow to unholy powers 
serve with fanaticism in life. Those who lay down their 
lives for their wicked masters return to serve in death as 
ebon knights. They move wreathed in sulfurous smoke 
that makes them appear, from a distance, as ghostly or 
fiendish beings.
Death Steeds.
 The bond an ebon knight has to its 
steed carries over into death. These steeds emanate 
smoke like that of their masters. The two fight in unholy 
synchronicity fostered by their simultaneous demise.
salvage
The plate armor of an ebon knight roils with the energy of 
undying evil. Someone who has proficiency with smith’s 
tools can melt the armor of three ebon knights to make 
plate 
armor of invulnerability
 that also grants resistance to 
necrotic damage
. 
However, this wicked armor requires 
an attuned wearer to sacrifice life force to it. After the 
wearer finishes a long rest, or the first time they put the 
armor on after having not worn it while finishing one or 
more long rests, they must either give up one-quarter of 
their remaining Hit Dice to the armor (rounded up) or 
gain 1 level of exhaustion. Someone who has proficiency 
with smith’s tools takes 30 days to make this armor, which 
requires other materials worth 10,000 gp to craft. The 
intended first wearer must give blood each day, losing 
Hit Dice or taking exhaustion as if wearing the armor. The 
process fails, consuming half the materials, if the wearer 
doesn’t feed the armor as it’s made. If this being then fails 
to wear and feed the armor daily for 30 days after it’s 
complete, it disintegrates into ash and smoke.
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (History):
 Ebon knights seek 
goodness to snuff out. These beings were evil paladins 
who sacrificed their lives to their unholy masters. Each 
has an unnatural bond with an undead steed.
DC 15 Intelligence (Religion):
 The ebon knight and 
steed are much stronger together. They are all but immune 
to being turned when in proximity to one another.
