366
G
rim
 H
ollow
m
onster
 G
rimoire
W
Wood Weird
“The lovely flowers growing on the roadside invite with 
their vivid colors and sweet aroma. The body-shaped 
tangle of vines near them is nothing to fear.”
Tempting Flora
. Wood weirds are rare plants found 
in temperate climes. Beautiful in both life stages, wood 
weirds have lured many travelers to their death.
Two-Stage Cycle
. A wood weird’s life cycle has two 
stages, including the trapper stage and the seeder stage. 
The trapper is a cluster of vividly colored, pleasantly 
perfumed wildflowers. The seeder stage is an attractive 
humanoid form of wood, with expressive facial 
features. The plant uses these charms, as well as mind-
affecting spores, to lure victims. To fulfill its life cycle, 
the wood weird consumes humanoid bodies.
In the trapper stage, a wood weird can reproduce 
asexually, sending light seeds on the wind to produce a 
clone of the wood weird elsewhere. However, a humanoid 
that rests next to a wood weird trapper becomes cocooned 
in the plant’s runners, risking transformation into a wood 
weird seeder.
In the seeder stage, the wood weird reproduces 
sexually, seeking out other wood weird seeders to 
mate. The seeder then spills its mature seeds over the 
ground to birth new wood weird trappers. It also lures 
humanoids to patches of wood weird trappers, so that 
new seeders can emerge.
Seraphic Punishment?
 Folktales tell that the first 
wood weirds were sent by the Seraphs as punishment for 
indolence. Some parents warn children to work hard and 
not to nap in the wild, “lest a wood weird catch you!” 
Due to these tales, many believe wood weirds to be mere 
myth or superstition. 
salvage
A defeated, unburned wood weird seeder can be cut open 
to salvage its seeds. Someone that has proficiency with 
alchemists’ supplies can stew these seeds with other rare 
ingredients worth 100 gp. The process creates a 
potion of 
vitality
 with a successful DC 15 Intelligence (Nature) check 
and 3 hours of work. If this check fails, the mixture looks 
right but instead creates a 
potion of poison
.
lore
DC 15 Intelligence (Nature):
 A wood weird seeder 
can release mind-affecting spores that charm other 
creatures. They use these spores to lure prey.
DC 20 Intelligence (Nature):
 The wildflowers found 
near a wood weird seeder are another stage of the wood 
weird’s life cycle, a wood weird trapper. These flowers 
release relaxing spores and can cocoon creatures that lie 
down near them, producing a new wood weird seeder 
if a humanoid victim dies while cocooned.
GM Advice:
The wood weird, and other creatures that 
are most effective when they seem harmless, rely on careful 
presentation. If you run a game when you never describe a 
plant during travel or wilderness investigation, and then you 
suddenly go into detail about a particular plant, the players 
realize something is amiss. In the sessions or encounters before 
presenting the wood weird, be sure to at least mention the flora 
of the region. This may help allay suspicion, providing a greater 
chance for the characters to be challenged by the creature.
