Slumbering Titan
“We camped for the night on a big hill, away from 
the trees. Had a good view all around. Halfway 
through the night, we woke up as the hill started 
moving. I never ran so fast in my life.”
True Giants.
 The first giants arose in the time of the 
Primordials, wrought from the very mountains by Citrolach. 
Larger even than modern giants, these titans were fear-
some combatants until the god of trickery intervened and 
sealed the worst of them in magical slumber.
Hulking Monuments.
 As time went on and mortals 
forgot that age-old war, slumbering titans became parts 
of the landscape, as rocky cliffs or barren hills. They had 
only a vague humanoid shape. Some made their way 
into folklore.
Awakened Rage.
 With the death of the gods, the seal 
on the slumbering titans has weakened. They stir once 
more. Their memories of conflict linger, and when roused, 
they resume their war against mortalkind.
salvage
A weapon that incorporates bones and the rocky hide of 
a slumbering titan and is then boiled in the titan’s blood 
for 3 days becomes a 
giant slayer
 weapon, provided the 
blood is no more than 21 days old. Making the weapon 
before boiling it takes someone who has proficiency 
with smith’s tools 6 days, and the process requires other 
materials worth 500 gp.
lore
DC 15 Intelligence (History):
 A slumbering titan is a 
member of a species that is the precursor to modern giants.
DC 20 Intelligence (Arcana):
 A god placed the titans 
into a magical slumber. They retain vulnerability to 
such magic.
GM Advice:
 The rules of 5e don’t manage well creatures the size of 
a mountain. In the case of a slumbering titan, that is exactly what 
they are. In some situations, a slumbering titan could be larger 
enough that a combat could take place not just with the monster, 
but 
on top
 of the monster!
If you are running a theater of the mind combat, an encounter 
with a slumbering titan is easier to run, as exact positioning is less 
important and less necessary to track. The characters can attack 
any area they are standing on, and likewise the slumbering titan can 
attack any character. 
Running combat on a grid with a slumbering titan can offer challenges 
if you play by the rule that creatures cannot share the same space. If 
this is the case, you’ll likely want to reduce the size of the slumbering 
titan and have the characters occupy the squares around it.
For a great deal of fun, have a combat between other creatures 
and the characters take place on top of a slumbering titan. The 
monstrous mountain would attack the pesky creatures on its back 
indiscriminately. If the characters are lower level, this turns a typical 
combat encounter into one where the goal for the characters is survival!
