158
G
rim
 H
ollow
m
onster
 G
rimoire
H
Horror-out-the-Box
“The motley-clad creature’s spindly arms and legs flail 
wildly as it dashes toward the shrieking child.”
Fey Oddity
. A fey creature of mischief rather than 
menace, the horror-out-the-box is so named because of its 
oddly shaped and distended legs and arms, the colors of 
its garments along its limbs resembling pleating like a 
child’s toy, as well as its face, colored like a jester wearing 
a domino mask.
A horror-out-the-box prefers to remain in areas with 
a strong fey presence, but outside of such environs it can 
be found in urban areas, where it might easily find its 
chaotic amusement.
Merry Pranksters
. Though the horror-out-the-box is 
more a prankster than a villain, it shares the cruel sense 
of humor of many fey. It delights in havoc and chaos, 
whether by picking a pocket, hitting someone in the back 
from afar to start a fight, or insulting passersby.
Adroit Tricksters
. Because of its incredible jumping 
abilities and reach, a horror-out-the-box is well-suited to 
leaping or clambering over any obstacle in its path. Its arms 
can reach from a distant hiding place to cause trouble.
Treasure Hoarders
. A horror-out-the-box enjoys col-
lecting shiny objects, and treasure is no exception. If suf-
ficiently threatened or somehow bested, a horror can be 
convinced to reveal the location of its prized valuables, 
though this hoard could be comprised of nearly anything.
salvage
The corrupting influence of a horror-out-the-box spreads 
to its treasure. Mixing the coins from a horror’s collection 
with other coins can cause gold to turn to lead or gems to 
turn to glass. Use your favorite trinket table to randomly 
create a horror’s “hoard.” There’s a 50% chance that the 
hoard contains a common or uncommon magic item
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (History):
 This creature looks like 
a perversion of a child’s toy, but it’s a fey creature that 
poses a threat to the peace in the area.
DC 15 Intelligence (Nature):
 A horror-out-the-box 
has an incredible reach and quick enough reactions to 
strike those who move carelessly around it.
