Blight Elementals
“In places where the land is twisted from its natural state, 
elementals can be affected. Their poison spreads quickly, 
creating more of their kind, until the blight covers everything.”
Affront to Nature.
 Whether through a brush with 
powerful malevolence or unwise experiments, elementals 
can be corrupted, turning them into blighted forms. Fey 
and others with a connection to nature have an instinctive 
aversion to these creatures.
Toxic Magic.
 Blighted elementals are sources of poison, 
carrying their corruption with them and spreading it to 
new places. They multiply rapidly and carry death to the 
unwary. For those with sinister intentions though, they 
can be an excellent source of dangerous, potent ingredients 
for potions or poison.
salvage
The remains of a blight elemental can be used to produce 
one of two concoctions. Each elemental leaves enough 
residue for three doses, which can be divided among 
the brews created. Someone who has proficiency with 
alchemist’s supplies or a poisoner’s kit can use one 
portion of the residue and other materials worth 
50 gp to produce one pale tincture. Producing the 
tincture requires 1 day of work and a successful DC 
13 Intelligence or Wisdom check. Someone who has 
proficiency with alchemist’s supplies or an herbalism 
kit can instead use one portion of the residue and other 
reagents worth 50 gp to make one 
potion of resistance
(poison) that also confers the benefits of antitoxin. 
Making the potion requires the same amount of work 
and a similar successful check.
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (Nature):
 Blight elementals arise 
when nature or the substance of an elemental plane 
is corrupted. These elementals can resemble non- 
elemental creatures, but they’re still elementals. Blight 
elementals have elemental resistances, including to 
nonmagical attacks.
DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana):
 A blight elemental is 
always poisonous, in addition to its other powers. Some, 
such as deathmoss and forgeblights, have supernatural 
abilities to spread rot to creatures or objects.
DC 20 Intelligence (History): 
Some legends say a lich 
created the first blight elementals to gain the favor of the 
Arch Daemon Malikir. If such stories are true, finding 
the lich’s notes might allow someone to return blight 
elementals to their original forms.
GM Advice:
 You can expand the threat presented by 
blight elementals by giving them the ability to create new 
elementals from the corpses of their victims. This gives 
characters a very short time to stop these elementals, 
because a single elemental in a populated area could spawn 
dozens in a matter of minutes.
