70
G
rim
 H
ollow
m
onster
 G
rimoire
C
Corpse Walker
“They rose from their graves, some by force of magic, others 
cursed through their life’s misdeeds. Whatever the reason, 
we can’t let them walk among the living.”
Grim Awakening
. When the soul of a deceased can’t 
leave the body because of induced death or for misconduct, 
it might rise as a corpse walker. The reanimated corpse 
moves about with its arms outstretched. With its attacks, a 
corpse walker siphons a victim’s life force and kills living 
creatures for sustenance.
Night Walkers
. Corpse walkers rise at night. By 
day, they hide in dark places such as coffins and caves. 
Whether newly deceased or buried for a longer time, the 
skin of a corpse walker is greenish white with bizarre 
mold growing on it. The sun burns this flesh and fungus 
away. As they age, corpse walkers become attached to 
their resting places and flee there when hard pressed.
salvage
Someone who has proficiency with alchemist’s supplies 
can mix the mold from a corpse walker’s skin with other 
materials worth 500 gp to produce a potion that grants all 
the corpse walker’s damage resistances for 10 minutes. 
The skin from an ancient corpse walker can produce two 
doses of this potion. A humanoid that dies while under 
the effects of this potion rises as a corpse walker 24 hours 
later. Creating this rare potion requires a successful DC 
15 Intelligence (Religion) check and 8 hours of brewing.
Someone who has proficiency with smith’s tools can 
fashion the femur of an ancient corpse walker into a 
one-handed melee weapon. Both femurs can make a 
two-handed weapon. Creating the weapon takes 10 days 
and extra materials worth 500 gp, and it’s a magic weapon 
when complete. Someone you hit with an attack using 
the weapon can’t regain hit points until the start of your 
next turn. If someone casts 
vampiric touch
 and 
inflict 
wounds
 on the weapon once per day while it’s being 
made, and materials worth 1,000 more gp are added to 
the process, the weapon also takes on the properties of a 
sword of life stealing
 but need not be a sword.
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (History):
 It’s bad luck for the living 
to set eyes upon a corpse walker. The returned gaze 
imparts a curse. Like a zombie, a corpse walker can take 
significant wounds and remain standing.
DC 15 Intelligence (Religion):
 The corpse walker 
has a severe vulnerability to sunlight, which burns and 
distracts it. Radiant damage is a sure way to ensure the 
corpse walker stays down when slain.
DC 20 Intelligence (Arcana):
 An ancient corpse walker 
can release spores that call loyal undead to it, although 
wind can disperse these spores. The ancient walker can also 
become a cloud of deadly spores that can animate corpses. 
If terribly wounded, the ancient corpse walker turns into this 
mist and has 2 hours to return to its lair or perish forever.
