Gnome Vampire
“The vampire appeared among the wolves as if it 
had been one of them moments before. Despite its 
childlike size, it retained a feral aspect. The wolves 
treated it like their leader and died to protect it.”
Vampiric Throwback.
 Gnome vampires are fierce and 
feral but still clever, and their fangs and claws are outsized 
for a small frame. The curse connects them with their 
ancestral roots, putting them in closer touch with nature 
and animals. As a gnome vampire ages, their connection 
with beasts grows stronger. Older vampires might have 
numerous animal allies, groomed over the ages as loyal 
minions. But gnome vampire spawn can speak to animals 
and easily cultivate relationships with them.
Mental Mettle.
 Although vampirism causes a kind 
of regression in a gnome’s ancestral traits, the curse 
fortifies the mental strength common to gnomes. Gnome 
vampires are notoriously resistant to anything that 
forces them to act against their will or subjugates their 
personality or mental faculties.
salvage
Gnome vampires love trinkets and mementos. A gnome 
vampire has several such personal objects. These objects 
might not have much real value, but the vampire holds 
them dear and might bargain to regain or protect them.
Eating the tongue of a young or older gnome vampire 
imparts the beast speech benefits normal for the tongues 
of all adult vampires. The tongue of an adult or ancient 
gnome vampire allows the eater to cast 
animal friendship
(spell save DC 13 for adult, 15 for ancient) at will while 
the beast speech effect lasts. The effect of an ancient 
tongue lasts 2 hours.
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (History):
 Gnome vampires 
display a strong will like that of gnomes, allowing them 
to resist effects that work on the mind or other mental 
faculties.
DC 15 Intelligence (Nature):
 Vampirism throws a 
gnome back to some ancient time when gnomes were 
strongly connected to natural beasts. The vampire can 
speak to and command animals.
DC 15 Intelligence (Religion):
 The resistance to 
mental effects extends to effects that turn undead.
