320
G
rim
 H
ollow
m
onster
 G
rimoire
S
Spythronar
“Armored corpses in the cavern, resting among thick strands 
of webbing, have sparks of lightning playing off them.”
Shocking Arachnids.
 Spythronars are spiders 
touched by the power of the primordial Ilhara, 
transformed into aberrant, lightning-charged creatures. 
In addition to lightning powers, the Queen of Air and 
Shadow grants the former spiders malign intelligence, 
gifting even their webs with sentience.
Every aspect of a spythronar’s life is a danger. The 
egg sacs release lightning. Electricity charges a mature 
swarm’s bites. Their sentient webs weave, ensnare, and 
electrocute any creature near them
Clan Prey.
 The clans of Rune, Sýr, and Völgr have 
traditions of capturing, killing, or salvaging parts from 
spythronars. Each uses parts in their crafts and fighting 
arts. Members of these clans admire anyone experienced 
in battling spythronars and offer hospitality to those who 
can prove their expertise.
salvage
Spythronar silk is prized, although it’s worthless if acid 
or fire touched the web. One web can be used to make 
silk rope or fine clothing. A proficient alchemist can use 
the same amount of silk to produce a 
potion of lightning 
resistance
 or a dose of an oil that allows a metal weapon 
to deal 1d6 extra lightning damage for 1 hour. Producing 
either concoction takes 4 hours of work and a successful 
DC 13 Intelligence check.
A proficient weaver can turn three spythronar webs 
into a 
rope of entanglement
 or 10 webs into leather armor 
of lightning resistance. Doing either requires other mate-
rials worth 500 gp, 5 days of work, and a successful DC 
15 Intelligence (Arcana) check. 
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (Nature):
 Spythronar swarms can 
weave dangerous webbing, making egg sacs quickly. It 
takes them some time to weave a sentient web.
DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana):
 The sentient spythronar 
webs adhere to you if you touch them, and they charge 
their silken strands with lightning.
Crushing spythronar egg sacs sets off a lightning 
discharge, but hitting them with lightning releases a 
new spythronar swarm.
