Hungerer Beasts
“Those infected with Tears of the Hungerer feel as if 
they’re starving. The disease drives them to look for other 
beings to bite. Some beasts seem to reach an agreement with 
the disease, exchanging survival for a mutated carrier form.”
Magical Hunger.
 The disease Tears of the Hungerer 
can turn a once prosperous area into a wasteland. The 
affliction mostly affects humanoids, but animals might 
be infected, too. If so, they grow bolder in their efforts to 
survive. Herbivore’s hunt fleshy prey, and predators raid 
graveyards to dig up corpses to eat.
Mutated Form.
 Hungerer beasts don’t become how 
they are by succumbing to the disease. That would be a 
natural end to these creatures, but little natural remains 
in them. The body changes to fit the extreme situation, 
turning a creature once skittish and peaceful into a 
ravenous predator.
Some hungerer beasts resemble starving animals, with 
an unhealthy coat and a spark of desperation in their eyes. 
Others change in monstrous ways, becoming new beasts. 
As with the hungerer snake and its tail blade, a beast can 
develop new traits. An attack from such a beast might 
transmit Tears of the Hungerer.
The change is so drastic that feeding a beast isn’t 
enough to return it to the animal it once was. Only 
powerful magic can restore a transformed beast. Some 
hungerer beasts breed their affliction into their offspring. 
Even greater magic is required to alter that change.
Abnormal Behavior.
 Hungerer beasts can be different 
in form, but they are united in their monstrousness and 
behavior. They are extremely aggressive. Pain doesn’t 
faze them. They face fire and threats with fierceness. It 
quickly becomes clear to anyone dealing with such a 
beast that it wasn’t created by nature.
salvage
Someone who has proficiency with alchemist’s supplies or 
a poisoner’s kit can use venom harvested from the hungerer 
snake to create one 
potion of poison
 that also exposes the drinker 
to Tears of the Hungerer. Producing the poison takes 
2 hours, reagents worth 50 gp, and a successful DC 13 
Intelligence (Arcana) check.
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (Nature):
 Hungerer beasts change 
under the influence of the Tears of the Hungerer disease. 
The infection might not kill, but it makes the animal 
an extremely aggressive carrier of the illness. Under 
this influence, even creatures that were once docile 
become dangerous.
DC 15 Intelligence (Nature):
 Hungerer beasts leap 
into battle and can rush prey with incredible speed. The 
smell of blood can drive some berserk.
Unusual features distinguish a hungerer creature. The 
bright blue body, crimson head, and daggerlike tail make 
a hungerer snake easy to identify, for instance.
DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana):
 Healing magic such 
as 
greater restoration
 or mightier healing can restore a 
hungerer creature to its normal state unless it was bred 
with the affliction, as hungerer snakes are. Only a 
wish
can undo that change.
