Z
375
G
rim
 H
ollow
m
onster
 G
rimoire
Zabrielite 
Truthseeker
“Have no fear, mortal. Look into my eyes 
so that the truth might be revealed.”
Messenger Eagle
. A Zabrielite truthseeker manifests 
as a giant, stalking eagle-heron with a human head and 
crest of incandescent head feathers. Its enormous silver 
eyes project blazing beams of radiant energy. They were 
created to be messengers of the gods, and aid mortal 
rulers in governing their realms with wisdom.
Birds of a Feather Flock Together
. During the 
War of the Four Divines, all sides summoned and bound 
Zabrielite truthseekers, assigning them to divine justiciars 
and inquisitors in their reckless pursuit to eliminate rival 
faiths. It wasn’t uncommon to see flocks of truthseekers 
accompanying a celestial host as flying artillery or 
assisting with ferreting out spies and informants. Zabriel’s 
own dereliction of duty encouraged her servitor angels 
to follow suit, and they pursued their own truth-seeking 
agendas as they served court mages, judges, and would-
be philosopher-kings.
A Separate Agenda
. The longer they spend away from 
the divine presence the gods, the more uncompromising 
and fervent Zabrielite truthseekers become. The act of 
uncovering secret cabals and conspiracies has taken on a 
life of its own; they search for truth for its own sake and 
not in service to the higher good. They’re just as likely to 
attempt to reveal the secrets of incautious adventurers as 
they are the machinations of evil-doers.
salvage
Four Zabrielite truthseekers’ plumage is a key ingredient 
in 
wings of flying
. A proficient weaver can spend 7 days 
and 2500 gp of components to craft those wings with a 
successful DC 20 Intelligence (Arcana) check.
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (History)
: The avian creature 
known as the truthseeker ferrets out large conspiracies, 
using their abilities to slay the transgressors. They are 
often overzealous in their pursuits.
DC 15 Intelligence (Religion)
: Truthseekers were 
servants of the gods, but they are tied directly to Zabriel, 
the Arch Seraph of Truth. 
DC 20 Intelligence (Arcana)
: The eyes of the 
truthseeker can shoot radiant bolts, and its gaze can 
transfix those who the creature attacks.
GM Advice:
 A truthseeker can act as an ally to characters 
one moment, and an enemy the next, depending on the 
moral and ethical decisions and makeup of the adventuring 
party. Accepting the assistance of a truthseeker comes with 
certain risks and obligations.
