96
G
rim
 H
ollow
m
onster
 G
rimoire
D
Drakes
“Descendants of the great dragons of the mythic past 
still roam Etharis. They have little of the majesty of 
their ancestors, but they’re still frightening.”
Lesser Dragonkind.
 The dragons most common on 
Etharis are bestial creatures the size of wolves or horses.
Blight Drake.
 Blight drakes are stunted dragons, 
twisted by diseases, to which they are very susceptible. 
Their wings are small and useless, sometimes rotten or 
absent. Blight drake saliva is poisonous to most creatures.
Sea Drake.
 A sea drake keeps to waterways, 
tormenting sailors and fisherfolk who enter their hunting 
grounds. These drakes can pluck an unwary mariner off 
a vessel in the blink of an eye.
Sky Drake.
 Agile fliers, the sky drakes of Etharis live 
in the mountains and other desolate areas. A sky drake 
defends its lair ferociously, but it’s willing to negotiate 
with those who have proven themselves stronger. Sky 
drakes even serve as mounts in return for promises to 
leave their homes alone.
Prismatic Drake.
 Said to be children of Gormadraug, 
the Prismatic Dragon, prismatic drakes frequent the North. 
Legends say they want to bring about the return of 
their ancestor. Sorcerers who foolishly try to tap into 
Gormadraug’s power can be transformed into prismatic 
drakes. Visions force them to perform tasks that might 
lead to waking the sleeping dragon.
salvage
Dragons are rare on Etharis, so materials from their 
corpses fetch a good price. A dragon’s corpse can be sold 
for at least 100 gp times the Challenge of the monster.
Someone who has proficiency with alchemist’s supplies 
can reduce the brain of a prismatic drake into an oil that 
can be used to fashion one 
arrow of dragon slaying
. Brewing 
the oil takes 5 days of work, reagents worth 2,000 gp, and 
a successful DC 17 Intelligence or Wisdom check. Making 
the arrow is a trivial task, but treating it properly with the 
oil takes 5 more days of work.
lore
DC 15 Intelligence (Nature):
 Sea drakes are cunning 
grapplers resistant to cold, sky drakes are adept fliers 
and have a bite charged with lightning, and blight 
drakes collect diseases that don’t kill them but make for 
a toxic bite.
DC 20 Intelligence (Arcana):
 Prismatic drakes are 
the rarest drakes, rumored to be sorcerers transformed 
into dragons after they foolishly connected their minds 
to Gormadraug, the slumbering Prismatic Dragon. 
These drakes can cast spells.
