81
G
rim
 H
ollow
m
onster
 G
rimoire
D
Dawndrinker
“Sometimes it’s darkest after the dawn.”
Alien Gloom.
 A dawndrinker is the fear of the dark 
incarnated in a leonine shape. But the creature’s head 
is alien, with five orbs that act as eyes and no mouth 
or nose. Three protrusions around the trunk function 
as ears. These organs vibrate when the dawndrinker is 
agitated, sounding like the rumble of an earthquake.
Thirsting Darkness.
 These creatures are thought to have 
emerged from the City Below. Others claim dawndrinkers 
came to this world to defend their summoners against the 
Arcanist Inquisition. Whatever the case, dawndrinkers 
leech light from the surroundings, feeding on it and growing 
stronger. In the presence of a dawndrinker, torches flicker 
and fail, the sun seems distant, and magical illuminations dim 
and go out.
Midday Night.
 When a dawndrinker makes its home, 
usually in a cave or dense thicket hidden from the sun, it 
slowly feeds on light in the area. The longer it feeds, the 
stronger it grows and the shorter the days seem near its 
lair. After a season, a dawndrinker can grow powerful 
enough create a small area where it appears the sun 
never rises.
salvage
Dawndrinkers have a special organ that stores and 
processes light the way that other creatures digest food. 
Most of the creature’s body disintegrates after it dies, but 
this light stomach remains. Someone who has proficiency 
with alchemist’s supplies, cook’s utensils, or an herbalism 
kit can prepare the stomach with other ingredients worth 
25 gp. If the preparer succeeds on a DC 13 Wisdom or 
Intelligence check, the organ makes a tasty, sweet meal 
for up to four creatures. After partaking, those creatures 
add 60 feet to their darkvision range for 24 hours, those 
that lack darkvision gaining it to a range of 60 feet. All 
partakers also gain blindsight to a range of 10 feet for the 
same duration.
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (History): 
A dawndrinker is a cunning 
predator that can easily hide and move in shadow. It greatly 
lessens and even extinguishes light sources.
DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana): 
A dawndrinker can 
sense light, its food, at a great distance. The monster is 
also resistant to fire, absorbing some of its energy, and 
immune to radiant damage, which is a source of quick 
nourishment for the dawndrinker.
DC 20 Intelligence (Arcana):
 A dawndrinker’s 
attacks can temporarily take away the victim’s ability 
to perceive light.
GM Advice:
 Before running an encounter with a 
dawndrinker, brush up on the rules for invisibility, darkness, 
and dim light. The dawndrinker and any of its allies should 
be able to function in darkness.
