Gegazol
“The Scourge of the North is an undead dragon named 
Gegazol. If I hear her name, I get the hell out of there. She’s 
powerful, cunning, and treacherous. And she’s rarely 
alone—she always has one army or another behind her.”
Ageless Threat.
 There’s a saying that Gegazol and 
the icy north share the same birthday. For as long as 
the Valikan Clans have told tales, their stories spoke of 
Gegazol’s rage—though none who live have seen her. In 
the early centuries, Gegazol was a living dragon, many 
say an offspring of the Prismatic Wyrm Gormadraug. 
She lived, that is, until she attacked a daemon. The battle 
was ferocious, as the dragon and fiend fought for life. 
Gegazol won, tearing the fiend in half, but her victory had 
a price. As the daemon’s ichor flowed upon the dragon, it 
killed and later cursed her body with the filth of undeath. 
Gegazol raged at her reawakening and proceeded to tear 
at and destroy her own undead body, only to reform later 
near the body of the vanquished daemon. The skull of 
the demon acts as the dragon’s soul vessel.
There’s an essential link between Gegazol and the 
daemon skull. Whenever the dragon’s undead body is 
destroyed, it reconstitutes dramatically. First, the stained 
bones appear, followed by the rotten muscle, tattered 
flesh, rotting teeth, and a maggot-infested tongue. 
Gegazol is helpless in this transformation. She can’t 
touch the skull—subtle enchantments steer her away. 
Gegazol has lost track of how many times she’s been 
restored near the skull.
Scourge of the North.
 Gegazol subjugates and wars 
for many reasons. First and foremost, she does so to 
protect her soul vessel. She wars to control the actions of 
pesky and curious mortals. Beyond protecting the daemon 
skull, Gegazol has a hard time rationalizing her decisions. 
She isn’t entirely in control; she’s being manipulated.
To Gegazol, her mind is her own, but deep down, 
something else swirls. The daemon’s psychic essence 
intermingled with the dragon’s consciousness when 
her body became undead. The daemon’s essence either 
refuses to or is incapable of communicating with any 
creature. It can’t speak; the skull is silent. Its mind can’t 
be reached via magic.
Delusional Destiny.
 A mind under extreme pressure 
breaks. Gegazol is cunning, often lucid, and by no means 
addled, but she is prone to intense stubbornness and 
unshakable belief that her destiny is to become Queen of 
the World. It’s a lofty goal, given that she has yet to conquer 
even a fraction of the North, but she has time on her side.
Gegazol both longs for and fears war. She remembers 
her death, and many deaths since, leaving her hesitant 
to muster her undead army and march south again. As 
the festering will of the daemon prods her, however, it’s 
only a matter of time before the Valikan Clans learn the 
myths of her existence are all too real.
Undead Nature.
 Gegazol doesn’t require air, food, 
drink, or sleep.
salvage
Gegazol’s lair holds a hoard gathered over the centuries. 
She has spread this loot among various vaults and 
chambers, and her Immortals guard these treasures. Her 
treasurers—a trio of compulsive vampires—keep careful 
records of the hoard in a library within the lair’s inner 
vaults. Each record contains a great deal of knowledge 
about the fates of various objects, and sometimes the 
vampires track a treasure beyond its gifting and engage 
in occasional quests to regain a lost valuable. Each historic 
tome from the library is worth at least 100 gp to the right 
collector. Enterprising adventurers could use any of these 
books as a guide to searches for lost treasures.
