GM Advice:
Adventures or encounters highlighting 
vitebriates hinge on a successful deception on your part. 
The trick is to describe the situation that makes the creature 
seem like a helpless innocent in the center of a mysterious 
situation, and then slowly drop clues that reveal the truth.
V
Vitebriate
“I swear I’ve seen that kid before, years ago, when 
I was just a kid myself! But she hasn’t aged a day.”
Life Drinkers
. Vitebriates, sometimes called “life 
drinkers,” are the result of horrible experiments or 
prayers answered by dark powers. When a mother loses 
a child to needless accident or horrible malice, or when 
a powerful mage seeks to bless an apprentice or servant 
with a longer life, a vitebriate is sometimes the result.
Immortal Parasites
. A vitebriate looks like a humanoid 
—often a child—but that is merely an appearance. These 
monstrosities feed on the life force of other humanoids, 
masquerading as an innocent while dominating and 
feeding off the unsuspecting. They retain their look of 
youth and vigor, and they manifest the power to continue 
harvesting humanoids.
Magical Control
. Vitebriates are capable of magically 
dominating humanoids. Often, these dominated people 
are forced to pose as a caretaker or invalid.The vitebri-
ate uses it’s thrall to interact with adults or blend into 
the fabric of a community.
Memory and Forgetfulness
. Curiously, vitebriates 
have memories of their prior lives, except for any magical 
or martial skills. A talented wizard or powerful squire 
transformed into a vitebriate must start such pursuits 
anew if they wish to master such arts. On the other hand, 
musicians, conversationalists, acrobats—even doctors—
all seem to be able to recall and use their prior skills 
without diminution.
Haunted and Obsessed
. Vitebriates are haunted by 
their past lives and obsessed with reliving some small 
part of it. For example, a child who died of drowning 
and awoke as a vitebriate may be compelled to drown 
others or might simply feel drawn to live by water. 
Regardless, the greatest obsession of every vitebriate 
is always to feed and to control.
salvage
When a vitebriate dies, it crumbles into a swarm of 
harmless crawling roaches.
If these roaches are mixed with seawater, a 
potion of false 
life 
results. The creation of this potion can be completed 
with a successful DC 10 Intelligence (Arcana) check by 
someone proficient with an herbalism kit. This process 
takes 1 hour.
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (History)
: A vitebriate can only 
have a single thrall at a time and can transfer some of its 
damage to its thrall.
DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana)
: Vitebriates are im-
mune to poison and disease, and they require a thrall 
to stay alive.
