Grudgels
“Fairy tales describing orcs as monsters who 
disappeared turned out to be just that. Orcs didn’t 
disappear, and they’re not monsters.”
Living Legends.
 Even the longest-lived people of Etharis 
don’t remember grudgels, but they remember their elders 
speaking of these dreaded creatures: humanoid monsters 
who used their ferocity and martial prowess to lay waste to 
towns before disappearing. These myths lingered, but the 
grudgels have returned. These beings, unlike those of the 
terrible tales, are measured and wise. They don’t speak of 
their communal past, but they seem to carry an otherworldly 
knowledge with them. Grudgels look to the stars as if those 
far-flung orbs are memories rather than mysteries.
Skillful Warriors.
 Grudgels, now wandering in from 
the wilderness in small groups, are proving to be valuable 
members of the communities they join, assuming they’re 
not killed on sight out of misguided fear. The grudgels 
employ advanced building and crafting techniques, and 
they share this knowledge, alongside a willingness to 
work. These traits help others overcome initial hesitation 
at the sudden appearance of an unusual stranger.
Grudgels are often peaceful and helpful, but they know 
how to fight. They’re as skilled at battle as they are at other 
trades. Some have training in advanced magic, which they 
use, as with their weapons, mostly to maintain peace.
salvage
Most grudgels carry a piece of glassy material called 
stryllum, which isn’t from Etharis. This substance is 
handed down from parent to child. The more powerful 
a grudgel is, the larger the piece of stryllum they carry. 
Small pieces of stryllum can be sold for 10 gp, while 
bigger pieces fetch 100 gp in large markets.
Someone who has proficiency with jeweler’s tools can 
work stryllum into a piece of jewelry. Doing so requires 
1 hour per 10 gp the stryllum is worth and materials worth 
as much as the stryllum. The jeweler must succeed on a 
DC 13 Intelligence or Wisdom check to configure the jewel-
ry properly—failure indicates the jewelry is attractive and 
valuable but nonmagical. Success results in a charm that 
can absorb 1 psychic damage per gp the stryllum in the 
piece is worth. The stryllum dulls as it absorbs damage, and 
the jewelry becomes brittle and worthless after absorbing 
as much psychic damage as it can.
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (History):
 Grudgels were known 
to be fierce and dangerous warriors before disappearing 
from Etharis. The grudgels that now live throughout the 
land behave nothing like those legends, although their 
appearance hasn’t changed.
DC 13 Intelligence (History):
 Every grudgel carries 
with them a piece of glass they call stryllum, which they 
guard jealously. Many believe it contains innate magic.
