Halfling Vampire
“They were among us before we knew they were coming, and they 
easily avoided our weapons, dodging among our legs, tearing with 
their claws and fangs. When Johan finally got a bead on one, he 
found he couldn’t shoot such an ‘innocent’ being.”
Deadly Speed.
 Halfling vampires are supernaturally 
agile and their small size does little to decrease their 
deadliness. A halfling vampire moves easily among larger 
foes, spreading mayhem while sidestepping reprisals. 
And if resistance becomes too much, a halfling vampire 
retreats and hides, returning to the fray on their terms.
Brash Action.
 A halfling vampire, especially a spawn 
or young vampire, is less likely to think before acting 
than other vampires. They eagerly go for food and 
pleasure, showing little restraint, and they can kill without 
intending to. Being so heedless of consequences and 
focused on immediate reward means halfling vampires 
have a harder time surviving to older ages than most 
other vampires.
Corrupted Fortune.
 Halflings have uncanny luck, 
and in part, that fortune is due to the childlike look and 
nature of many halflings. Halfling vampires use this 
natural charm as a defense. Those who wish the vampire 
harm find it difficult to follow through on an attack 
while looking into the vampire’s big, innocent eyes.
salvage
Someone who has proficiency with alchemist’s supplies 
or brewer’s supplies can distill the blood of a young or 
older halfling vampire into a 
potion of speed
. A young 
vampire produces enough for one dose, an adult for 
two, and an ancient for three. Each dose requires 3 days 
of brewing and other reagents worth 500 gp, and the 
brewer must succeed on a DC 15 Intelligence or Wisdom 
check. Drinking one of these potions has the same effect 
as eating any vampire part.
Consuming the eye of a young or older halfling vampire 
also affects the eater as if 
sanctuary
 were cast on them.
lore
DC 15 Intelligence (History):
 Halfling vampires 
are incredibly stealthy and fast. They can attack and 
disappear before victims realize what’s happening.
DC 20 Intelligence (Arcana):
 A halfling vampire 
can prevent you from attacking them with a look. This 
defense is a form of enchantment magic.
