M
201
G
rim
 H
ollow
m
onster
 G
rimoire
Magebane Ooze
“For every action, there’s an equal and opposite  
reaction by an angry wizard.”
Made for Spite
. Magebane oozes were created by an 
irritable wizard to wreak havoc on rivals. Unfortunately 
for him, his creations got loose before he could unleash 
them, making him their first victim.
Devourers of Magic
. Magebane oozes feed on magical 
energies. Although they can survive for years without 
feeding, they do so by going dormant. An active ooze 
shrivels quickly if it lacks a source of magic.
Unusually Intelligent
. Because their creator intended 
them to attack other wizards, he experimented to provide 
them greater intellect than most oozes. As a result, they 
strategize and can set traps for their prey.
Inquisition Tool
. The Arcanist Inquisition has recently 
learned of the existence of magebane oozes, and inquisitors 
are in the process of capturing the strange oozes to use 
against their magic-wielding foes.
salvage
Magebane oozes are a terrifying risk for even well-
equipped adventurers. Even in death, some of their 
corrosive properties persist. Someone who makes a 
successful DC 15 Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) check can 
carefully collect the remaining potent ooze into a vial. 
This can be turned into a 
magebane bomb
 (see Chapter 4). 
Making this item requires a proficient arcanist to spend 
4 hours, use 100 gp of components, and succeed on a DC 
15 Intelligence (Arcana) check.
lore
DC 12 Intelligence (Arcana)
: Magebane oozes feed 
on magic and quickly reduce magical weapons and armor 
to regular, non-magical versions of those weapons.
DC 15 Intelligence (History)
: Magebane oozes were 
created by a vengeful wizard who lost control of them 
before he could unleash them on his rivals.
DC 20 Intelligence (Arcana)
: Some arcanists speak in 
hushed whispers of a particular mutation that occurs after 
magebane oozes have managed to devour enough magic. 
These magebane evolutions are nearly indestructible and 
can not only strip away magic, but store and then direct it 
back at the unlucky caster who loosed it.
GM Advice:
 Magic is such a powerful force in the game that 
twisting it to use against characters can sometimes seem to be the 
only thing that can scare a character. A more powerful form of 
magebane ooze that collects and harnesses the destructive nature 
of magic used against them would be a terrifying prospect for 
high-level magic-wielding characters.
