116
G
rim
 H
ollow
m
onster
 G
rimoire
E
Abree Simoni
“She came through two nights ago looking like she was on 
the run. If I’d known she was a deserter I’d have alerted the 
authorities straightaway, Empyreus’ truth!”
Trial by Fire
. Having lost her parents at a young age 
to a wicked spellcaster, Abree Simoni dedicated her life 
to becoming an inquisitor. Her diligent study of Em-
pyreus’ dogma earned her the privilege of joining the 
Inquisition’s ranks at fourteen years old. Over the course 
of her first years in the Arcanist Inquisition, Abree’s faith 
was unwavering. When her superiors directed her to 
root out corruption, she did so with meticulous fervor 
When asked to put fire to the kindling beneath accused 
spellcasters, she did so without hesitation. Then she was 
deployed to the village where she and her brother had 
been raised by distant family following the death of their 
parents. She discovered her brother was accused of casting 
magic. Her unit was charged with incarcerating him 
until his trial and execution.
Crisis of Faith
. Certain her brother would never 
practice magic, Abree tried to find proof of his 
innocence. When she couldn’t, turning up witnesses 
who’d seen him engage in ritual bloodletting, she did 
the unthinkable—she betrayed the Inquisition and fled 
town with her brother. They were on the run only a few 
days when Abree woke in the middle of the night to find 
her brother had left her on her own. With no answers to 
the accusation against her brother, and no excuse for her 
superiors, Abree continued her flight from the region.
Lost and Alone
. Now Abree travels from town to 
town, trying to make her way out of the Castinellan 
Provinces unnoticed. Should the player characters win 
Abree’s trust by showing her kindness, she requests their 
assistance. Her first goal is to find her brother and ensure 
his safety. She also wishes to flee the lands where the 
Arcanist Inquisition holds power. If anyone among the 
player characters is an inquisitor, she changes her plans 
and asks if they could vouch for her so she can return 
to her post. Regardless, if the player characters agree to 
assist Abree in keeping her safe from the Inquisition, she 
happily travels with and fights alongside them.
