384
G
rim
 H
ollow
m
onster
 G
rimoire
Bugbear Vampire
“I thought the brutes were going to tear me apart. 
Little did I know they had a worse fate planned for me.”
Physically Imposing.
 Already an imposing creature, 
a bugbear afflicted with vampirism becomes even more 
of a hulking brute. Their muscles grow enormous, with 
ropey veins bulging from flesh that their fur fails to 
cover. Bugbear vampires are capable of great feats of 
strength. They eschew the weapons they used in life in 
favor of the visceral close combat of tooth and claw.
Reckless Predators.
 Corruption has made bugbears 
wild and chaotic in their normal lives. Vampirism has 
a similar effect. A bugbear vampire is a brutal fighter 
who aims to kill quickly without much consideration for 
personal safety. Few vampires survive to the adult stage, 
but even fewer bugbear vampires do.
Might and Stealth.
 Only an elder vampire of 
considerable might can prevent young bugbear 
vampires from reducing prey to gory remains. But 
under such direction, bugbear vampires are effective —
if ruthless— agents for missions that require infiltration 
or a bloody ambush.
salvage
The muscles of a bugbear vampire can provide a 
gruesome reward. Somebody who has proficiency in the 
Medicine skill can harvest muscle tissue from a bugbear 
vampire. Someone who has proficiency with alchemist’s 
supplies or the Arcana skill can then treat the muscles 
with reagents worth 2,500 gp over 14 days. Exposure to 
sunlight during this process causes the tissue to wither 
and become useless. Otherwise, the process requires a 
successful DC 13 Intelligence or Wisdom check and, if 
successful, produces one 
muscle graft
 (see chapter 4).
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (Religion):
 The vampiric curse 
intensifies a bugbear’s worst tendencies while increasing 
their strength to astonishing levels. Bugbear vampires 
relish close combat.
DC 15 Intelligence (History):
 Bugbear vampires are 
so bloodthirsty and overconfident that they can fail to 
look out for their own safety. Goading such a vampire 
into anger is one way to make them reckless.
