186
G
rim
 H
ollow
m
onster
 G
rimoire
L
Leeching Willow
“Don’t seek out the wood of a willow tree for 
your fuel or building material. For you might 
accidentally run afoul of a leeching willow.”
Hidden Aberration
. The leeching willow looks like a 
normal willow tree. Hidden inside, however, is a powerful 
aberration, a massive brain with a nerve and circulatory 
system that runs throughout the tree. The brain and the 
tree are interconnected through every branch and root.
Leeching Spores
. Instead of feeding through the sun 
or roots, the leeching willow feeds using psychic spores 
breathed in by creatures around it. The spores enter 
through the olfactory system and move into the brain. 
From there the leeching willow feeds on the electrical 
energies of the brain. The feeding process is slow and re-
quires multiple sentient creatures infested for it to sustain 
the creature. Further, this process weakens those infected 
as their vigor is sapped and their mental energies drained.
Cancerous Infiltrator
. The leeching willow can 
manipulate the memories of those infected, turning them 
into unwitting participants in the aberration’s feeding. 
By using its basic motor functions, the aberration sneaks 
into humanoid villages and settlements, planting itself 
right in the center of the community in the middle of the 
night. Then it uses its memory-altering spores to trick the 
humanoids into thinking it’s always been there.
Unwitting Allies
. Humanoids infected by the 
leeching spores become irrationally defensive about 
all trees in the area, specifically the leeching willow 
itself. They look perpetually tired, disregard their 
own hygiene, barely eat, and become sedentary. 
Communities infested by leeching spores die over 
the course of a few years as they wither away, 
attempting to blame their ills on exterior sources.
Fear of Vibration
. The leeching spores require very 
delicate brain waves and psychic vibrations to survive 
and transfer the mental energies to the aberration. Strong 
external vibrations can disrupt the delicate connection 
between the aberration and the subject, potentially killing 
the spores within the brain and freeing the infested. 
These vibrations are strongest when they form harmoni-
cal vibrations that sound like ringing, especially that 
of bells.
Ring That Bell
. The ring of a large bell instantly disrupts 
all connections from the infested who can hear the ringing, 
destroying all spores within the same radius. For this 
reason, subconsciously, the leeching willow imparts 
memories onto the infested of strong hatred toward 
anything that can ring or vibrate in such a manner. All 
bells are gathered up and hidden far away where they 
cannot be heard (destroying them is difficult without 
making them ring). Common objects like silver utensils 
or glass are discarded and not used anywhere on the 
settlement either, for fear of any form of ringing.
