314
G
rim
 H
ollow
m
onster
 G
rimoire
S
Snarite
“I cut my hair every week for half a year last time one of those 
was spotted in my village. That was decades ago, but the habit 
of keeping my hair short stuck. Safer, I suppose.”
Subtle Parasites
. Not unlike the common head louse, 
snarites start incredibly small and pass from head to 
head with surprising ease. As thin and long as a strand 
of hair—or a thick braid when they are at their most 
powerful—snarites burrow into the scalp and grow 
slowly. If the creature they’ve attached to isn’t the sort 
to regularly trim their hair, snarites can go unnoticed for 
years. By the time snarites are long and thick enough to 
be differentiated from normal hair, it’s too late to get rid 
of them without a fight.
Wisdom Stealer
. A short time after attaching to a host, 
a snarite can steal and affect the host’s thoughts. Each 
year a snarite is attached to a host, the host’s willpower 
and ability to process thoughts are lowered. The drive of 
the snarite is to grow until it reaches old age, after which 
it sheds hundreds of young snarites into the region to 
infect more humanoids.
Growing Out
. A young snarite is indistinguishable from 
a strand of hair. As it grows, an adult snarite is easily 
confused with a long lock of hair. An old snarite looks like 
a long and luxurious head of hair or a thick ponytail.
salvage
An old snarite can be woven into a 
cap of bravery
 (see 
Chapter 4). This requires a proficient weaver to spend 
4 hours and 50 gp of components and then succeed on 
a DC 10 Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) check.
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (Nature)
: If you trim your hair 
and one strand simply refuses to cut, you’ve probably 
found a snarite.
DC 15 Intelligence (History)
: Rumor speaks of 
remote villages where the citizens walk around in a 
stupor, and their hair seems to have a mind of its own.
DC 20 Intelligence (Arcana)
: Snarites are aberrations 
that disguise themselves as long strands of hair. They 
can affect the thinking of hosts, and killing them can 
be difficult because of their perch atop the head of an 
innocent victim.
