228
G
rim
 H
ollow
m
onster
 G
rimoire
M
Mukad
“The Aether Kindred slumber, but mukads writhe 
and work, preparing for their masters’ return. We 
must eradicate every infestation before it’s too late.”
Aether Kindred Agents.
 Mukads are big, sapient 
insectile creatures that scrabble feverishly in the darkness 
beneath towns and cities. They serve the Aether Kindred 
and prepare for the return of their extraplanar masters. 
A gathering of mukads is known as an infestation.
Communal Mind.
 Many sages believe the mental 
powers of mukads come from a connection to 
Pharazorthok. Some have suggested individual mukads 
are physical manifestations of a fragment of an Aether 
Kindred’s mind.
Grotesque Forms.
 Mukads are bizarre humanoid-sized 
centipedes with tough greenish-black carapaces. A mukad 
walks on hundreds of thin legs, providing rapid movement 
across walls and ceilings. Also, each mukad has two clawed 
hands and a pair of venom-filled mandibles.
Mukads come in sizes and shapes based on their place in 
the infestation hierarchy and their stage of growth. Larvae, 
each about the size of a house cat, are voracious. They form 
swarms to devour whatever they can and grow quickly. 
Most larvae grow into workers, about as large as a human 
child. These workers can specialize in colony defense, 
growing a little larger and becoming droners or warriors.
All these mukads issue from progenitors. Mukad 
progenitors are central to a mukad infestation. These 
massive leaders direct the infestation’s activities and 
implant prey with a reproductive substance from which 
larvae emerge to expand the infestation.
salvage
Someone who has proficiency in the Arcana or Medicine 
skill can extract the venom sacs from an adult mukad 
with a successful DC 13 Intelligence (Arcana) or Wisdom 
(Medicine) check. Somebody who has proficiency with 
alchemist’s supplies or a poisoner’s kit must refine and 
preserve the toxin with reagents worth 5 gp. Success in 
this process yields one dose of mukad venom, or two 
doses from a progenitor mukad.
Mukad Venom (Ingested or Injury).
 A creature 
subjected to this poison takes 1d6 poison damage. The 
creature must succeed on a DC 12 Constitution saving 
throw or become poisoned for 1 minute. The target can 
repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, 
ending the effect on itself on a success. If the creature 
drops to 0 hit points while poisoned in this way, it becomes 
stable, but it is poisoned for 1 hour and paralyzed while 
poisoned in this way.
lore
DC 10 Intelligence (Nature):
 The mandibles of these 
sapient centipedal aberrations contain a paralytic poison.
DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana):
 Mukads are telepathic, 
and some have psychic powers to enthrall, distract, and 
cause pain.
DC 20 Intelligence (Arcana):
 Progenitor mukads 
can inject already paralyzed creatures with a strange 
“poison” that causes a creature to be paralyzed for a 
day. The substance creates an ectoplasmic “cocoon” 
from which mukad larvae eventually emerge to feed 
on the paralyzed victim.
